[music]
We were seeing AI jitters coming back
into the market.
>> The risk atmosphere is elevated.
>> If I broke tech down, the dispersion
between the halves and the halves have
nots are almost unbelievable.
>> People should not be so concerned about
the absolute increase in overall market
capitalization. The concern should be
the concentration.
>> Earnings growth is the last engine of
return. And look, it's still on. That
engine's still going.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Abramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right [music] now.
Coming into Tuesday, bouncing back.
Precious metals rallying, equities
heading back towards all-time highs as
SpaceX and XAI are combining with a
$1.25 trillion valuation. And the BLS
[music] is cancelling payrolls Friday as
the gridlock in Washington keeps the
government shut down.
>> You're trying to trigger [music] me. I
mean, honestly, we're all Bill Murray
just living in Groundhog's Day. Every
other week, it feels like we get this
government shutdown and now it's
delaying the uh gold standard when it
comes to labor market data that would
have come out on Friday. It delays the
Jolts data that [music] we should be
getting at 10 a.m. today. It gives us
sort of more noise that we have to
grapple with. And ultimately, the good
news is we'll probably get some sort of
resolution at least today. The bad news
is in 10 days we probably are going to
have to do this all over again with that
much more aggression before some sort of
leave that people [music] are going to
be taking because they always go on
vacation.
>> So you're super excited to cover the
story just like me as the quote none of
us wanted to read from the BLS
yesterday. Due to the partial federal
government shutdown, the Bureau of Labor
Statistics will suspend data collection,
processing, and [music] dissemination.
So, the problem is this is the week that
they would release it on Friday. And on
Wednesday, the commissioner, that's
tomorrow, [music] would get the report
from the individuals that are tasked
with working on the BLS report. Well,
they're not at work today. They weren't
at work yesterday. So, the commissioner
can't get [music] the report. The
commissioner then can't go to the White
House, which would be on Thursday, give
the CEA the report, tell them, you know,
tell the president what's going on, and
then Friday release it. That's the
plumbing behind the BLS that now we all
know too much about because we
continuously see this government
shutdown. Trump was able to strike a
deal with these holdouts yesterday. So
all of the funding will go through
except for [music] Lisa says DHS and
that's going to be another fight.
>> So do you want some good news?
Manufacturing data was pretty good.
India and the United States taking down
the temperature just a little bit. Then
go to corporate America. Palanteer
earning solid. Decent debt sale from
Oracle yesterday as well. $25 billion
worth and that was taken down [music]
pretty well.
>> This is a reason why you saw record
highs. This is the reason why you broke
the snap in some of the gains uh in some
of the losses that we had seen over
[music] the past week. There's a real
question here. How long can markets
continue to ignore the increasingly
mounting noise that we get from
Washington DC, from geopolitics, from
all sorts of other headlines that change
from day to day while the earnings kind
of march in [music] a steady beat. And
that ultimately is what a lot of
investors are trying to focus on.
>> Just take the story to out of space. Get
away from planet Earth. is quote the
most futuristic [laughter] statement
I've ever heard from SpaceX. From the
most ambitious vertically integrated
innovation engine on and off Earth with
AI rockets, space-based internet, direct
mobile device [music] communications,
and the world's foremost real-time
information and free speech platform.
>> You're of course talking about the $
1.25 25 trillion tie-up between SpaceX
[music] and XAI with Elon Musk saying
that the reasoning behind this is
because ultimately it's going to be
cheaper to uh do the computing in space
than here on Earth kind of combining his
efforts and focusing far far [music]
away from the car industry.
>> Also, the fact that they have this
electricity demand and energy demand, he
[music] says basically you could do that
with outer space solutions and it's even
better for the environment down here on
Earth. So, he's looking to outer [music]
space to expand the AI data centers and
everything else that AI trade needs.
>> And we've got a lot to cover this
morning. Coming up, we'll catch up with
Julian Emanuel of Evercore with stocks
on the brink of all-time highs. Angelo
Zeno of CF on the rift between OpenAI
and Nvidia and Steve Englander of
Standard Charted as the government
shutdown delays the payrolls report. We
begin this hour with stocks bouncing
back as big tech regains some momentum.
Julian Emanuel of Everor writing, "Micro
disturbances are creating more stock
market volatility, but a capital market
cycle only beginning to accelerate means
the bull market has further to run."
Julian joins us now for more. Julian,
good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> You published just moments ago. You
called it Groundhog Day. All noise, no
signal. Is that the last 24 hours or the
last month?
>> I I think it goes back to January 20th
of last year, doesn't it? Really? It's
uh it is an environment where we are in
a a state of unprecedented flux and
change geopolitical makeovers. Um and
but but the abiding concept uh when you
look as an equity investor is that
earnings are really going strong. I mean
first uh fourth quarter is is set to
look at you know maybe 14% earnings
growth. really extraordinary and it sets
the table for a very good 2026.
>> It's a very very volatile backdrop at
the moment though. Take South Korea.
South Korea down 5% Monday, up 67% on
Tuesday. What does copper, gold, and
South Korean equities have in common
common right now? I
>> it's it's the momentum concept. It's the
speculation concept. Um and what's
interesting is the bifurcation in the
technology sector. So Korea is doing
what it's doing because you've got two
heavyweight stocks that are chip makers
that are, you know, really have been
powered forward. Whereas software on the
other hand is in the doghouse like, you
know, nobody's business at all. And and
at the end of the day, the sum total in
our mind is that people are cautious
with regard to technology. And think
about that. That's actually the kind of
wall of worry that keeps markets moving
forward.
>> Can you have a market that moves forward
without the leadership of big tech,
without momentum returning some of these
big tech names that still are below some
of their all-time highs that we saw late
last year?
>> In our mind, it would be very difficult.
uh it it's a problem of mathematics
whether it's the top 10 at north of 40%
in the S&P 500 uh or the uh three uh
tech focused AI focused sectors
accounting for 55% of the way to the
index uh you need them uh fortunately in
our mind if you look at the NASDAQ 100
you've basically been going sideways
since October a and in the past over the
course of this bull market you've had
those times where you've just gone
sideways and the resolution of the price
pattern is higher and we think earnings
are going to drive that once again.
>> Have the earnings momentum really
shifted to the other 493 and I hate
using this because it's really a myriad
group of different stocks and some of
them Pepsi just reporting earnings and
saying that they're planning to cut
prices and part of this is because of AI
efficiency gains. I mean how much are
you starting to see that trickle out and
what people were hoping for at least
last year? Well, it it is part of the
narrative that again in our mind by the
time that this year is over is going to
sort of uh tear down that wall of worry
around AI and around the potential for
productivity to be on a secular uptrend
because of the benefits of AI. Uh and
and at this point, you know, when you
see these anecdotes, what it does is
that it puts pressure on the competition
to show how they are driving revenues
and cutting costs using AI. And in our
mind, when you look at it on a stock by
stock basis, sector by sector basis, if
you can't show a coherent strategy as to
how you're capitalizing on AI, by the
end of this year, you are going to be
judged to be at a competitive
disadvantage. And you're already seeing
that differentiation in the market.
>> When it comes to what's going on in
gold, does it give you pause? Is it
uncomfortable that gold is basically
trading like a meme stock?
>> Well, so there is precedent for it. And
interestingly enough, silver uh actually
during the meme stock phase in early
2021 had a volume spike uh that was
similar to the volume spike in we saw in
the SLV last week that essentially the
same thing uh prices ramped and then
fell back. Look, the thing about the
precious metals is it's been a source of
angst for over a year. A year ago, it
was like, okay, precious metals are
rising and the S&P is rising. There's
got to be a systemic issue. And then it
was gold and silver going parabolic.
There's got to be a systemic issue. And
now it's gold and silver. And I think
the the word is appropriate. Silver
crashed in in the in the last week that
that is a crash. Um, and there's got to
be something systemic. No, there doesn't
have to be something systemic because
like the meme stocks in 2021, those
areas as a percentage of market cap are
not big enough to disturb the S&P 500 or
the global stock
>> the question what is because we've had
these explosions across different asset
classes now in JGBs in precious metals.
What is big enough to disrupt this
equity market? uh in our mind the one
thing we continue to focus on is the
10-year yield in the US. Okay, we know
at the short end that there is going to
be what we would call cooperation uh in
in the guise of you know perhaps two
maybe even three interest rate cuts this
year. Uh but the long end at some point
is probably going to become pressurized
uh and and that will be the test for
equity markets.
>> What do you mean by cooperation? Uh rate
cuts rate cuts in an economy that
cooperation with who
>> in
well whoever well when the wars Fed
starts I would expect that there are
going to be rate cuts.
>> When you say things like that it makes
me wonder what's going to happen to the
gold trade by the time we get to year
end. It makes me wonder what's going to
happen with the dollar trade. There was
a thought I think on a lot of desks over
the last few days and this is from
Morgan Stanley that the Kevin Walsh
nomination had a stabilization effect on
some of those trades. diplomatically
speaking, it upset them. Now, I'm
wondering how you're thinking about that
into year end.
>> So, when we look at the medals that
think about the range of the last week
and a half, absolutely breathtaking. You
know, essentially 5550 on the high in
gold and you know, whatever 4,000 and
change on the low. It would not surprise
us at all if we had a digestive phase.
And that happens typically after a crash
of that kind of magnitude that both
bulls and bears get frustrated. And
frankly, in this kind of environment,
you want to see volatility come in in
other asset classes. And if you look at
it, the fact that Treasury market
volatility has been as well behaved as
it has been has been a huge tailwind for
the equity market. $500 range on gold in
the last 24 hours alone.
>> Okay, I know where you're trying to lead
him to. Is the Fed's independence being
jeopard taking us there? What do you
mean pulling me in that direction?
>> Absolutely. Just reeling in.
>> This to me is interesting because if you
did believe this, you would price in
more rate cuts into the market. And
right now, actually, you've seen the
number of rate cuts priced into the
market go down after yesterday's ISM
manufacturing report. So, right now, the
market might not be drawn to the same
watering hole as Julian Emanuel. The RBA
also reminding us the central banks can
hike as well and we'll talk about that
story a little bit later. Julian, you're
going to stick with us. Julian Emanuel
of Everore. Equity futures just about
positive by a tenth of 1% on the S&P
with an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Here's Ronnie [music] Quinn. Hey Ronnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. President Donald
Trump is pushing House Republicans to
accept a deal struck with Democrats to
end the partial government shutdown in a
post on Truth Social. Dem Trump telling
lawmakers to swiftly pass the measure
with no changes. [music] The bill would
fund most agencies through September and
the Department of Homeland Security
through February [music] 13th.
PepsiCo shares falling in the pre-market
after reporting fourth quarter earnings
that topped expectations. [music]
The company announcing plans to buy back
up to 10 billion worth of shares through
2030. The Wall Street Journal reporting
the beverage and snack company is
looking to cut prices by as much as
[music] 15% on products.
Elon Musk is combining SpaceX and XAI at
a $1.25 trillion valuation. Musk says
the company will work on AI, rockets,
space-based internet, and other
technologies. Sourc is telling us here
at Bloomberg the company is still
planning an IPO [music] later this year.
The offering could raise as much as $50
billion in what will be the biggest
initial [music] share sale to date. And
that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. More from Vonyie
Quinn later this hour. Up next on the
program, gridlock in Washington.
>> I spoke with Speaker Johnson. I spoke
with Leader Thun and uh I think they're
pretty close to a resolution. I spoke
with Senator Schumer numerous times
[music] and I don't think they want to
see a shutdown either. Team coverage up
next with Bloomberg's Tal Kendall and
[music] Mike McKe from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
Equity [music]
futures on the S&P positive by a tenth
[music] of 1% on the S&P 500. On the
NASDAQ up by 0.4 for this from Pepsi
this morning out with earnings moments
ago, but it's this story from the
journal [music] that is going to get a
ton of attention. PepsiCo is looking to
cut prices by as much as 15% on its
[music] products. This direct from the
Journal. The beverage and snack company
is making the cuts after receiving a
flood of emails and voicemail messages
from shoppers [music]
complaining that high prices were making
it hard to buy the company snacks.
>> So, it's a price cut of about [music] 10
to 15% across a number of uh a number of
different products. For example, Lays
Classics [music] potato chips would fall
in price to $4.29 from $4.99. And the
idea here is that if there is a certain
price point, people will be more willing
to just put it in their basket and not
necessarily get worried about the price
that it adds to it. It highlights though
where is that money coming from? Some of
the cost cuts that they've [music] made
pretty much across the board and some of
this comes from new technologies
including artificial [music]
intelligence. They are reinvesting it
back in price. I find this fascinating.
Is this the beginning of the same in
some of the companies that are in a
similar industry?
>> Look, it's one data point, but it's one
important data point. And that's the
kind of data that you don't hike rates
in. That's the kind of data you cut
rates [music] in.
>> This is the elixir of productivity that
people are talking about that you can
increase efficiency and then lower
[music] prices. This is disinflationary.
And this is the reason why the likes of
Fed chair Jay Powell are saying this
isn't necessarily a super inflationary
environment. That said, this is one
company as you said. How much do we see
this across the board, especially with
the prices of the materials popping,
which really feeds into the Australian
issue of why they're hiking rates?
Because guess what? They're on the other
end of those price increases for some of
the commodities. So, it's a really
difficult story.
>> So, which side of the debate are you on
right now? Andrew Honhorse of City still
looking for 75 basis points of rate cuts
for the year ahead. Andrew was looking
ahead to the payrolls data on Friday.
He's not going to get it. Under
surveillance this morning, gridlock in
Washington. [music]
>> I spoke with Speaker Johnson. I spoke
with leader Thun and uh I think they're
pretty close to a resolution. You know,
we were at 5.6% GDP and we lost a point
and a half because of the 42-day
shutdown. Think of that. We would have
been at seven. Nobody ever saw a number
like seven. It's very bad for our
country. But despite that, we have the
highest numbers we've ever had. I spoke
with Senator Schumer numerous times. And
I don't think they want to see a
shutdown either.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
president urging holdouts in the House
to strike a deal to end the shutdown.
The shutdown's impacts beginning to
build with Friday's payrolls report now
delayed. Our team coverage starts right
now with Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall in
Washington. Mike McKe in New York City.
Tyler, first of all to you. Are we close
to a breakthrough?
>> Looking likely. House Republicans have
teed up a vote for today on the 1.2
trillion package that would end the
partial government shutdown. As you
mentioned, President Trump made it
pretty clear yesterday in a post that he
wants House Republicans to get on board
with this compromise that was struck
between the White House and Senate
Democrats as it stands. In fact, two
holdouts had confirmed that they had
direct calls with the White House
yesterday. And in exchange for that
call, they are dropping their demands to
tack on some separate legislation
related to tightening voter restrictions
during elections in exchange for their
vote on government funding. Now, while
it is looking likely, we should say it's
not quite a done deal yet. House Speaker
Mike Johnson is probably going to need
some moderate Democrats to get on board
to get this bill over the finish line.
But the package as it stands would fund
most agencies through September 30th,
but then separates out that Department
of Homeland Security funding and only
funds it through February 13th, which is
setting up the real more precarious
issue at hand, which is that lawmakers
are only going to have 10 days to reach
a compromise on full fiscal year funding
for DHS and also new curves on
immigration and customs enforcement. And
that is proving a lot more difficult
than it sounds already as some
Republicans are bulking at top demands
from Democrats, including new warrant
requirements and also an end to federal
agents wearing masks. John, I will say
we saw some bipartisan uh agreement
yesterday. Democrats applauding the DHS
Secretary Christy Noom announcing that
federal agents on the ground in
Minneapolis will all wear body cameras.
But at this point, Democrats are saying
that is not going to be enough. They
need to see some of these changes
codified into law.
>> So Mike McKe, let's talk about the
disruption to the economic data. Go
through the data for this week. What
aren't we getting? What are we getting?
Well, we're getting a lot of private
sector information, John. Like tomorrow,
we'll get the ISM services indu index.
We got the ISM manufacturing yesterday.
Uh what we won't get are the Jolts
report today, which is not a terrible
loss in terms of trying to figure out
where the economy is, but it it is a
clue. and we don't get the payrolls
report on Friday. But if you had to have
a shutdown, this is probably about the
best time to have those kind of numbers
delayed. Fed doesn't meet again until
March 18th. And so there's no immediate
pressure on policy makers to decide
whether there's anything wrong with the
economy and they have to take action. We
are expecting a slightly better jobs
report than we had in December. So uh
that even keeps some of the pressure off
here. You could move it to next week.
Now, if the vote fails and we keep the
shutdown going, next week we lose CPI
and we lose import export prices and so
you would lose both ends of the Fed's
mandate, but there's still time to get
those back.
>> Mike McKe with the latest on the ground
alongside Tyler Kendall. Mike Tyler,
thank you. Julian Emanuel of Ever still
with us around the table. Julian, how
many people built a successful equity
portfolio based on payrolls in the last
12 months? As we all sit here and say, I
miss payrolls. to want to see payrolls.
I'm right there with you. But how
instructive has the payrolls report been
for an equity strategist?
>> I think maybe destructive instead of con
constructive. It's just
look the conundrum of the morphing
policy on immigration versus what the
break even monthly payroll uh number is
versus the fact that the weekly jobless
claims are incredibly subdued at this
very low level causes a sense of
confusion in in general. And we were
asked yesterday whether we thought it
was a big deal that the payrolls number
was going to be delayed. And frankly,
it's just another piece of noise right
now. And actually, in a way, and I agree
with what Mike McKe just said, this is
probably a good time to not have this
report for the next couple weeks,
particularly since at some point we're
going to have to evaluate whether the
weather of the last several weeks has
any effect, transitory or not, and
probably transitory. uh but you know
reminds us of the first quarter of 2014
where you had the introduction of that
phrase polar vortex and the economy
actually contracted and then had a
couple of five plus% GDP quarters in a
row and and again you're looking at that
same type type of growth.
>> Some of my favorite topics government
shutdown and weather disrupted jobs
reports. I mean this is really exciting.
I've got to say you do have to wonder at
what point though it does start to
matter and that's where sentiment
surveys come into into the four and
that's where things like Pepsi's 10 to
15% price cut comes into four. Why are
people demanding these price cuts if
they didn't feel somewhat not great
about the economy about their labor
market prospects and that will
eventually should have some kind of
effect? No. Well, I if you look at it
again, one of the remarkable things
about this entire bull market cycle is
how bad consumer sentiment measurements
have been the entire time. And it's
really driven by this affordability
issue. It's real. There's no, you know,
masking it. Uh, and frankly, I I I was
shopping this past weekend and it was
shocking some some of the prices. A
absolutely shocking. you're not
necessarily anchoring anymore to what
the preandemic number was, but you know,
when you see things that you you talked
about a bag of potato chips that was
three something at 4 something, that's
the kind of thing that really grates on
psyche and that's why consumer sentiment
remains as depressed as it is, even
though the spending is strong.
>> I'm dating myself, but it was 99 cents
on my way home from school when I got it
for a snack. Just saying. I am curious
though at what point this starts to eat
into the strong economy narrative. We
were speaking yesterday with Matt Mskin
uh of John Hancock and he was saying
look I reject this idea that we're
heading towards some sort of
reaceleration and I also reject the idea
that we're heading into some sort of
downturn. This is sort of the preandemic
norm and we're going to kind of slow
down and get to a new place, a new
normal that's lower. Do you agree with
that or do you think that this sort of
productivity elixir is going to create
this sort of hot but strong but not hot
kind of growth? the kind of numbers that
we're seeing right now are not likely
sustainable. I mean, we're calling for 2
and a half% GDP growth in 2026. But to
your question, it all comes back to the
one thing, it always comes back to jobs.
Okay? I if if the job market is strong
and people's income and they feel, you
know, regardless of how they feel about
what grocery prices are, if you have a
job, the economy moves forward. And more
importantly, if you have a job as a
retail investor, you do not have to sell
your stocks.
>> Julian, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir. Julian Emanuel of
Evercore on the many contra
contradictions coming into 2026. Let's
take the earnings from Mastercard or a
Visa in the last 12 months. Those
numbers have been great. Then you look
consumer confidence rock bottom at the
conference board. Which data point are
you going to trade on? Because one has
been a decent indicator of things and
the other has been not so helpful.
>> Look, it's a cliche, but it's the
K-shaped economy. If you look at
averages, the average spending looks
good. If you look at the actual granular
uh medians, not so much because on the
lower end, people are not spending. It
all comes down to jobs, but the jobs
report hasn't mattered. So, it just is a
conundrum wrapped in an enigma, wrapped
in a riddle.
>> But for the White House, this is really
challenging. To Julian's point, it's
about jobs. In those consumer sentiment,
you actually see people, not just
anymore, talking about higher prices.
They're worried about going out and
finding new jobs.
>> I saw Julian sming then. It's about
jobs, but it's not about jobs. I mean
that's essentially what jobs I mean it's
sort of ignore it. It's absolute noise
weather but it's really important.
>> What do they say when your [music]
neighbor loses their job it's a
recession you lose your own is a
depression.
>> Yeah well
>> something like that right
>> especially at these prices.
>> Coming up on the program we'll catch up
with Angelo Zeno of CFRA on reports
OpenAI is looking beyond Nvidia to
supply its chips. Plus Yhara has your
morning movers. Check out Palanteer this
morning. The stock is up by 11% from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> snapped a three-day slide on the S&P 500
in yesterday's session. This far away,
this far away from alltime highs.
[music] Futures up by another tenth of
1% on the S&P on the NASDAQ up by 0.4 in
the bond market. ISM manufacturing
[music]
solid print yesterday. details and some
of the industry feedback a little bit
murky and we can talk about that later
but we traded off that headline print
and that [music] headline print was hot.
Yields are up in the last 24 hours up
another single basis point on tens to
428 95 and this move in gold an update
on precious metals for you. Gold in
early trading higher by 5% after a
really volatile 24 hours. Stock gen
fantastic just yesterday. Gold prices
didn't [music] correct, they
deleveraged. The extreme moves speak to
positioning and not fundamentals.
Central bank buying was not driving this
leg of the explosive [music] rally we've
seen over the last 12 months. It was
being driven by ETF flows priced a heavy
political risk of debasement [music]
premium. This is what genens say. The
washed appointment signaled low
institutional chaos that undid [music]
some of these moves.
>> Well, this is a reason why uh people saw
that huge swoon not just in gold but
also in silver. People attributed it to
the Kevin Worsh effect. Essentially, Fed
independence wasn't going to be
challenged as much. Suddenly, there
doesn't need to be this rush into havens
outside of the dollar. The fact [music]
that it's up more than 5% this morning.
The why behind it, yes, it's technical.
You can't give any other reason. You
can't give [music] a sense of now people
are worried about it again or now gold
miners are, you know, reducing supply or
now Chinese investors are coming back
in. This is entirely a technical [music]
move and this is going to be the
increased level of volatility that many
people are expecting in this space. Can
it stay in this space or does it bleed
out into other asset classes? Gold up by
5%, silver up by about [music] eight. As
we count you down to the opening, about
3 hours away. Let's get you some morning
movers. Yhira has more. Hey yra.
>> Hi John. We start with Palunteer. Shares
are soaring 11% in the pre-market after
a big topline [music] beat and strong
guidance fueled by soaring demand for
Palanteer's AI tools by both business
and the US government of course. But
this stock move we're seeing is a sharp
reversal from a recent trend. Shares
have been down 30% since a recent high a
few months ago. A lot of that having to
do with valuation. A top [music]
concern, an ongoing concern for this
company as it's one of the most
expensive on the S&P 500. [music]
Meanwhile, moving on to AES. Those
shares up 6% on our scoop that Glo Black
Rockck Global Infrastructure Partners
and uh EQT are teaming up for a
potential [music] takeover. This is a
power company based in Arlington,
Virginia, and it supplies renewable
energy to the likes of Microsoft. These
power names [music] have drawn strong
investor interest due to their role in
the AI buildout as uh as demand for
electricity [music] continues to sore.
And we end on Sandis continuing its hot
streak up nearly 3% in the pre-market
after being up nearly 16% yesterday. The
stock has now [music] been up uh about
uh the stock has now been up for five
straight sessions and is up nearly 180%
[music] just this year. All of this
having to do with soaring demand for its
memory chips. It says demand is far
outstripping supply and that has given
them major pricing power. John
>> Yhara, thank you. More from Yhara in the
next hour. On our radar this morning,
Elon Musk consolidating his empire,
combining SpaceX and XAI. The deal
giving the new entity a valuation of
more than $1 trillion. The company
aiming for an IPO expected later this
year. Elsewhere, Samsung electronic
shares soaring, recording their biggest
one-day jump since 2008. The benchmark
cost be extending gains as a recent rush
to secure memory chips for AI powers the
record run in South Korean equities. And
finally, we're all tracking this spat.
Open AAI reportedly frustrated with
Nvidia's chip performance. Reuters
reporting that chat GBT maker is
discussing working with rival chip
producers. OpenAI CEO Sam Alman praising
Nvidia saying quote they make the best
AI chips in the world.
>> Oh, I love how catty this space is
getting. I mean ultimately there's a
question about whether Nvidia is
challenging some of the uh legitimacy or
the efficiency of processes coming from
OpenAI. Open AAI of course may be
raising questions about who they're
going to partner with. The idea though
that these two are inter
interchangeable, that they basically are
intertwined, not interchangeable, but
intertwined, just highlights how this
ecosystem really relies on each other
and it's very hard to extricate yourself
from one or the other.
>> It was circular financing and now the
drama seems very circular as well.
Jensen Wang questioning Sam Alman, Sam
Alman coming out questioning, at least
according to Reuters, the chips that
Nvidia is selling it. This is what
Reuters had to say. OpenAI is not
satisfied with some of its latest AI
chips and is seeking alternatives. That
is almost a shot across the bow for
Jensen Wong who says, "We have the best
in the world."
>> It's Wall Street Journal reporting
versus Reuters reporting right now in
this issue. Behind the scenes, they seem
to be being pretty pretty blunt about
what they think about each other. It
feels like OpenAI is kind of being catty
and snapping back because the journal
story was scathing. Basically, Jensen
Wank is questioning the business
approach of OpenAI right now and the way
they're deploying capital
>> and whether it's irresponsible and
whether they really want to be behind
it. and to come out and say that it was
an invitation to invest hundred billion
dollars and they're not sure whether
they are going to really uh go with that
hundred billion dollars figure. It was
just a suggestion. It wasn't necessarily
a commitment highlights they could be
pulling back real dollars if OpenAI IPOs
this uh this year. How much does this
become a sticking point for both their
valuations and frankly for the whole
industry?
>> Let's stick with technology stocks. AMD
rising ahead of earnings on reports
OpenAI is casting a wider net for chips.
Angelo Zeno covers Nvidia and AMD for
CFRA, rating both stocks a strong buy.
Angelo joins us now for more. Angelo,
please weigh in on this spat. What's
behind it? What's driving it? And where
do you think the chips will fall?
Yeah. So, John, I I think this makes for
great drama uh to kind of what you guys
alluded to, but you when we start
thinking about this, I mean, listen,
Nvidia continues to have the best
ecosystem out there, whether it be the
hardware they produce or whether it be
their, you know, their their software
ecosystem. When you kind of think about
where Jensen sits here right now and
what he sees, I mean, essentially, you
got OpenAI making commitments with
everybody here over the last six to nine
months. And um in reality, it doesn't
matter necessarily to Nvidia who wins
this game at the customer level. Um but
they want to be involved I think across
the board. And I think the fact that
they're going to be part of this funding
round for Open AI tells you that. But it
also says something in the sense that
hey listen we're not going to kind of
you know dish out everything that you
know from an investment perspective. um
just given the fact that hey listen
maybe open AI isn't going to be you know
the natural winner out there maybe it's
somebody else so you know the fact that
you've seen investments from Nvidia and
the likes of anthropics and others of
the world um I think is really telling
as well
>> is there a larger message here Angelo if
you just take a step back and you start
to look at the fact that big tech hasn't
reprised some of the record highs that
we saw last October that you see a lot
of skepticism around some of these
funding rounds or additional investments
in open AI on behalf of the likes of
Oracle I mean, is there a tell here in
terms of where we are in the cycle and
how behavior has to be reigned in going
forward after a couple years of pretty
proflegate spending?
>> I think there is. I mean, I I think when
you kind of look at 26 right now, 2026,
it's it's really a year of execution.
It's a a year where I think investors
are in some respect trying to derisk
some of the uncertainties that are out
there. um in more less so about what's
going to happen here in 2026 and maybe
even into 2027 there's some great
earnings power across the tech sector
but when you start thinking about I'd
say the outyear estimates right the tail
risk um for a lot of these techreated
companies you know across the AI
ecosystem there's some real concern out
there right um whether it be the cloud
providers like a Microsoft uh whether it
be the soft you know other software
SASoriented companies or even at some
point you know I know semis have been
the heart of the trade here over the
last three years, but probably going to
see some um you know concerns about the
sustainability of semi-spending at some
point in time. So, you're seeing those
multiples really compress here over the
last couple of months and that's really
weighed on the tech trade. Um I don't
know if that necessarily changes or or
not. I I think you'll see, you know,
points of, you know, better sentiment as
the year progresses, maybe as Open AI
gets some of the funding that they're
looking for. But nonetheless, I mean, I
do think this is a year where multiples
really are coming in a little bit um to
account for some of those risks as we
look ahead.
>> At the same time, Angelo, how much do
you see the spiggots of financing
completely open after yesterday's $25
billion oracle sale that I believe had
something like $129 billion worth of
bids and came in much overs subscribed
with yields coming in significantly. I
mean, how much is this sort of the
allcle sign in terms of the ongoing
funding pipes?
Yeah, I'd say for, you know, some of the
bigger companies out there, you know,
there's still high demand in terms of
kind of, you know, the demand for uh
liquidity in terms of receiving the
capital from these for these companies.
I wouldn't necessarily say it's it's all
clear for any company out there looking
for funding, but yeah, I mean, right now
it's it's an attractive environment in
terms of, you know, companies looking to
to get that funding. I think there's
there might be to some extent um a rush
to get some of that funding locked up
here. Um, I think it was a very smart
move for Oracle to kind of look at that
here early into 2026. Um, and look at
that 50 billion or so. Um, but it'll be
interesting to kind of see how things
progress here over the next couple of
years or so. But right now, I mean, it's
it's absolutely a healthy environment.
>> Well, do you think they're
overleveraged, Edw? Because they say
that developing these data centers means
they're going to be negative free cash
flow at least until 2030.
>> I I mean, for for uh Oracle, we we stay
away from the name. I mean, it's it's a
name that we did downgrade a couple of
months ago and, you know, in our view,
it is a a name that just carries way too
much risk. I mean, you alluded to the
fact that, hey, listen, they're going to
be negative free cash flow here over the
next couple of years. Um, they're
raising more debt. Um, they they may
need to potentially tap the markets
again at some point in the future. It
won't be 2026, but maybe 27 or
thereafter. Um, again, we have to wait
see wait and see what the uh trajectory
of that um that build is going to be.
But when you start looking at the
riskreward opportunities out there, you
can really kind of benefit um and see
some of you know some of the upside
potential form these AI trade um just
from better capitalized names. Whereas
if we were to see a hiccup in terms of
the AI trade, let's say we we see supply
demand come in balance here um over the
next couple of quarters or years,
companies like the the Neoclouds and the
Oracles of the world are probably going
to get hit a lot harder than a company
like a Microsoft or an Alphabet or an
Amazon, which is obviously, you know,
better uh financially uh positioned.
>> Angela, it's good to see you. It always
is. Thank you, sir. Angela Zena there of
CFR. I'm pleased you brought up that
question because I think it's the
ultimate question right now. How
speculative is the capex build over at
Oracle? Now, if you go through the Fitch
note yesterday, they assigned a triple B
rating to the debt that was issued in
the last 24 hours. And there's this
quote that sits in their statement.
Fitch believes that Oracle's risk
exposure is manageable in the near term
because its capex is tied to typical
multi-year revenue contracts with major
AI customers that have strong financial
backings, including a range of
companies. But this is one of the
companies they name, Open AI. If that
multi-year contract is tied to OpenAI,
just how speculative is that build?
>> Especially if some of the financing
letters of intent are not commitments,
but simply invitations to finance the
company. I mean, it starts to be
dependent on OpenAI, which is dependent
on Nvidia and Microsoft and uh Amazon.
So, it raises this issue of is there
some sort of blind spot? And yesterday,
we did not see it. And I think that
that's notable that still bond investors
are clamoring to buy this debt, seeing
it as high quality. Will that change? It
isn't changing yet.
>> Sitting right on top of that line
between junk and investment grade just
right there at triple B.
>> Yeah. And will it get downgraded right
now? Again, the fact that you saw
spreads on those bonds come in so
significantly during this bidding
process highlights people are kind of
shrugging some of that off right now.
>> About a 24 hours for that name, that
company for Oracle. Let's give you an
update on stories worldwide this morning
with your Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonyie
Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. President Donald Trump and
India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi
agreeing on a trade deal. US levies on
Indian goods are being cut from 25 to
18% [music] and that 25% punitive duty
tied to purchases of Russian oil. Well,
that's being scrapped. [music] President
Trump writing on Truth Social. India
agreed to buy $500 billion of US goods
and hold crude purchases from Russia as
part of the deal.
Australia is the first major economy to
hike rates in 2026. In a unanimous
[music] decision, the RBA raising its
key interest rate after determining
inflation pressures were persistent
enough to warrant renewed restraint.
Governor Michelle Bullock avoiding any
hints that further tightening is
possible, though, saying [music] quote,
"It's not clear one way or the other."
Merc shares are falling in pre-market
trading. The pharma giant missing its
2026 forecast as Chinese [music] demand
for its HPV vaccine continues to drop.
The drug maker is also facing new
challenges in the United States where
health officials are now recommending
fewer doses of the [music] vaccine. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thanks for the update. More
from Vonyie in the next hour. Up next on
the program, data delays.
Some data is is better than no data and
even late data is better than holes in
in the data, but I think there's still
questions in terms of of how uh how
robust this data is.
>> Steve Englander of Standard Charted has
plenty of questions. [music] He says
it's not the gold standard, it's fool's
gold. That conversation up next.
[music]
>> [music]
>> within striking distance of alltime
highs. Futures positive this morning by
about a tenth of 1% on the S&P after
snapping a 3-day slide in yesterday's
session. On the Nasdaq, we're up by 0.4
four on the Russell up by 0.1 and the
Savannah this morning data delays
>> some data is is better than no data and
even late data [music] is better than
holes in in the data so I think it's
it's helpful in that regard but I think
there's still questions in terms of of
how uh how robust this data is just
given you know sampling period shifted
survey response rates um potentially
obstructed by just the interruption of
of the normal course of of procedure
>> so Here's the latest this morning.
Friday's payrolls report postponed as
the government shutdown drags on Steve
Englander of Standard shouted writing
the US data quality has become quote
more fool's gold than the gold standard.
We expect the uncertain quality of the
data to become the bigger issue than
statistical agencies and the Fed have so
far acknowledged. Steve joins us now for
more. Steve, good morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> Tell us what you really think. What's
going on here? I look I I you know it's
become so common to say that the US data
are the gold standard and they may be
compared to everything else but there's
so many holes in the data um that
haven't been addressed um and I'd say
that you know BLS you know is not
political in the sense that Trump
accused them of being but they've been
kind of intellectually lazy over over
the last decade.
>> What's making them intellectually lazy?
You're suggesting it's not just response
rates. What is it? Well, you know, you
look at the birth death adjustment,
which is basically more than half um the
employment growth we've been getting and
it doesn't reflect anything that's
happening in real time. It's basically
an auto reggressive model that says what
what's going to happen January of this
year is what happened January of last
year. Now, they're going to try and fix
it. Um as a consequence there will be
not just the usual benchmark revisions
but big revisions from April through uh
January and or April through December as
well as a big down you know weak number
we think in in January.
>> So Steve put the data through an England
aer filter. What do you look at? What
would you point to that says you know
what I can rely on that that makes
sense. That's where the economy is.
>> You know I I've used the image of being
in in Plato's cave. you sort of see a
lot of images on the wall and you try
and sort of put them together to make
you know make a coherent story. But even
the unemployment rate which everybody
lives and dies by um if the labor force
is constant it all it takes is 70 or 80
people reporting that they're unemployed
more than last month to push it up by a
tenth of a percent. You know given how
much stress we put on that that's not a
big number. Okay. So, I'll take your
Plato's cave analogy and it seems like
we've been living there for about six
years now with the data being called
into question and frankly a lot of
fluctuation since the pandemic. I just
raised a question of what's your sense
then taking a look at all the images on
the wall. Do you see a labor market
that's stronger than people think or
weaker?
>> I I see a labor market that's pretty
mediocre. It's not a disaster. There's
no sign that it's falling apart quickly.
Um, on on the other hand, it it really
is the case that you're, you know, if
you don't have a job, it's, you know,
good luck and God bless. I mean, it's
just not, you know, the odds that you're
going to find a job are are relatively
low. On top of that, you know, the AI
thing, the productivity thing, we think
could matter in the short term, although
we're very optimistic in the longer term
that jobs will be created. I mean,
cavemen, um, the unemployment rate is no
higher now than it was in the day of the
cavemen. Okay, we're really going back
to to caves and and and and
hieroglyphics. I'm just curious going
forward about what you're watching to
understand whether that we're heating up
and whether there is a degree of
undermining the significance of this
data on a permanent level as a result of
the government shutdowns that make some
of this data optional depending on the
week. I mean, it can't be optional
because the the BLS is the only
organization that has like a real sample
that they sit down, they try and sample
the entire country. Everybody else has
samples of opportunity. Who's posting on
LinkedIn? Who whose payroll checks are
you processing and so on and so forth.
Um, you know, they could combine all of
this. I mean, there's so much more
information out there than what the BLS
is using and information that's
available in real time. They can do a
much better job than they've been doing.
Trump has appointed someone new on
Friday reported about it. He confirmed
it on Truth. This is someone that people
call a data nerd. I got messages from
Biden era people and Trump people saying
this is a great pick for the BLS. Do you
think a new commissioner could come in
and maybe take some of this on board?
>> Um I I think so, but I I mean the
question is whether he breaks out of the
BLS mindset that you know all you do is
use inside BLS and you tweak this and
you tweak that and and everything is
fine. Um, you know, look, in NFP, I
mean, we don't use ride shares. We don't
use gig workers. They're just as much
employee. They're not entrepreneurs.
They're just as much employees as as we
are.
>> When it comes to this report, we're not
going to get it. But you have a very
downbeat suggestion for how many jobs
are created. Actually, negative.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think we're the lowest
in the street. So, um, at least as of
yesterday. Um look the the problem is
that we've estimated that the bias in
the birth death adjustment um you know
we we estimated 70,000 pow estimated
60,000 if they come up with a model that
really takes current conditions into
account and is consistent with other
data sources we have that are better but
lagged um you know all the numbers we've
had for the last 18 months you know just
the burst desk stuff will go down by 60
or 70,000. Steve, you're a foreign
exchange guy.
>> Yeah.
>> At heart. What are you advocating for at
the moment given everything you've just
said over the last five minutes?
>> Well, you know, I like I said, the labor
market is soft.
>> Um and and softer. In fact, you know
what it tells you is the productivity
growth when we get the numbers that are
based on the revised data are likely to
be even stronger than what's been
reported. We believe the productivity
numbers. Um, you know, we're sort of in
in the wash camp where it it's sort of,
you know, we think that there's
something happening in productivity.
Productivity normally does not pick up
four years into the recovery, 5 years
into the recovery. And that's usually a
signal that's something structural.
That's what we saw in the late 90s. It's
what we saw in the mid60s. So, we think
that's the most by far the most
important thing that's happening in the
economy right now. And you know arguing
about about 25 basis points here or
there is kind of a waste of time.
>> What do you think we should be arguing
about?
>> Ah we should be trying to estimate
productivity growth better and
understand the dynamics that's going to
happen. For example, we're dollar bulls
because we think the US has the labor
market flexibility. U you don't need a
Bloomberg journalist. You let them go.
But you find something. Yeah. No, sorry.
Sorry. [laughter] I didn't mean that.
No, you don't need a foreign exchange
economist. You you let them go. Um, but
you find somebody who's [laughter] going
who's going to you find some, you know,
but you're making money somewhere else.
And you look at the profits numbers that
we're getting. Historically, US firms
hire when when they're making money.
They might not hire the same people they
hired 2 years ago, but they'll say,
"Okay, where are we making money? Let's
let's pick up some people and see if it
works." Elsewhere in the world, in
France, you buy a truck, you don't like
the truck, you know, for business, you
sell it in 6 months. You hire a worker.
Seven months later, you decide you don't
like the worker. You know, he's more
fixed capital than the truck.
>> This has been a secret source of the
American economy for a long time. Deep
capital markets, bankruptcy, and
flexible labor markets. Are we losing
any dynamism?
>> I mean, there's a risk that we are.
Look, I you know, there's also stuff
that, you know, Trump is trying to do or
people are trying to do. I think that's
positive for the economy in terms of
deregulation. Um, but, you know, the the
sort of willingness to sort of say,
"Yeah, I see a problem. I'm going to fix
it." You know, like some of the things
they've talked about the housing market.
You know, to fix the housing market, you
have to increase housing supply, not
housing demand. You'll just get higher
housing prices, but the same number of
prices. I think they have to be careful
about their willingness to interfere.
>> That's my concern, too, that we're not
embracing the dynamism that
traditionally has laid the foundation
for the American success story that if
anything, we're questioning it in the
last 12, in fact, never mind the last 12
months, the last 5 years. And maybe you
can go further back than that. Well,
this is really the heart of the
question, especially given the concerns
around AI and the push back that you're
getting with people not wanting to lose
their jobs. You see this in the likes of
say UPS, right, where you saw that labor
negotiation and some of the workers
negotiate for higher wages and then you
saw thousands of cuts as they sort of
look toward a leaner new reality. How do
you pair both dynamism with a transition
phase that's going to be very painful
for a lot of families?
>> Steve, get back in a cave. Brutal. Steve
Englander of Standard Childhood. It's
good to see you, Steve. Pleasure. Thank
you, sir. Tell us what you really think.
Steve Englander,
>> I feel like
>> about us, about the data. [laughter]
>> I feel like between Steve and Neil Da,
it's festivist. It's airing of the
grievances. I mean, it's sort of, you
know, this is the worst Fed chair. This
is the worst data. Intellectually
dishonest. Who's next? Come on down. 11
more months for this to go. Steve,
>> look at everybody. You know, look at
Europe. It's a joke. I mean, you know,
you had No, but seriously, you got
something called Euro stat, but they
actually don't collect any [music]
statistics.
>> I wish we had more than 10 seconds left.
I wish we did. Steve, it's good to see
you. Up next, Victoria Fernandez of
Crossmark. [music]
>> He's [music] going to be coming into a
Fed with some challenging things to
navigate. The FOMC, it's bigger than one
person and you can't just get in there
and exert your will.
>> They are not like sheep. They're more
like cats. You can't herd them.
>> Right now, the Fed is in a really tough
spot.
>> We do expect the Fed to remain on the
sideline now for an extended period of
time.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
[music] Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa
Bramowitz, and An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance [music] starts
right now. And your scores look like
this. Equity futures on the S&P building
on yesterday's gains. Futures higher by
about a tenth of 1% on the NASDAQ 100 up
by 0.4 after snapping a 3-day slide on
the S&P in Monday session. This Tuesday,
check [music] out Pepsi. And check out
this story from the Journal so far this
morning. Pepsi lower by 1%. This direct
from the Wall Street Journal about an
hour ago. [music] Pepsi is looking to
cut prices by as much as 15% on its
products. The [music] beverage and snack
company is making the cuts after
receiving a flood of emails and messages
from shoppers complaining that high
prices were making it hard to buy the
company's snacks.
>> Over the past couple of quarters,
they've actually seen volumes come down
and they've increased their earnings as
a result of price increases. [music]
This is taking some of that away. And
part of this is because of the basket of
groceries that people have in an
affordability crisis. [music] When the
basket starts getting expensive, you
start to look for the items that are
contributing to it and you don't put
them in the basket. If [music] the
prices are lower, you are more willing
to put it in your basket. Where is this
coming from? Efficiencies and they're
using those cost cuts to lower prices.
>> And also looks like PepsiCo is maybe
just losing some market share. Consumers
are going for cheaper some [music] of
those brands like a Walmart brand of
potato chips instead of going for the
Lays. This corporate speak though
[music] today, PepsiCo aims to boost
growth by quote offering sharper value
to address consumer affordability
dynamics. Aka, we're losing some
consumers right now. We're going to have
to lower [music] some prices.
>> That screams disinflation, but like
2025, 2026 is quickly becoming [music]
picky poison. Do you look at that? Do
you look at the conference board data?
Do you look at the earnings coming from
say a Mastercard, which says [music]
there's absolutely nothing wrong with
this economy right now? Which data do
you put more weight on?
>> Yeah. How do you understand? [music] I
hate using this because it feels cliche,
but the K-shaped economy ultimately who
is putting that lace bag of potato chips
in their basket and looking at the
price? Well, it's not necessarily the
person who's going out and eating dinner
four times a week at pick your own
restaurant in a big city. So, how do you
cater to all of these different customer
baskets, if you will, and come up with
an average? People [music] say, "Well,
the data is messy." Well, the data is
trying to reflect a really mly picture
and you put it together and right now
people are just like, "La, I'm going to
focus on the earnings because I've got
nothing else to do and we don't even
have data coming out on Friday.
>> No payrolls Friday."
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> No data. you're gonna [music] have to
overweight ADP and some other private
indicators as well.
>> When you hear from Stephen Englander
though, it's like who cares if we don't
get that data though because he's
basically saying it's not very good. But
yeah, this is what happens when you have
a government shutdown. BLS workers are
at home. They can't prepare the report
and that means we're not going to get
the report on Friday. No mention yet
though of when that's going to be
rescheduled because this is at the end
of when we're supposed to get it. I
imagine minimum next week they got to
come out with it.
>> Steve was brutal, wasn't he? if you
missed the conversation, spent like 10
minutes going after US economic [music]
data and then at the very end took a jab
at Europe because why not?
>> Yeah, because ultimately they're even
worse. And and then he said, you know,
you fire some Bloomberg news reporters,
you have we're like, whoa, hold on a
second. The line has been crossed. Look,
[music] ultimately the data is not
great, but not having it, people can
whine about that, too. And there's a
real question here about are we
undermining the credibility or are we
just adding to the paniply of private
data that we get? We're getting ISM.
Yesterday we got ISM. Tomorrow we're
getting ISM services. [music] Very
exciting. I'm very happy about that.
>> Looking forward to that as well.
Equities right now on the S&P positive
by a tenth of 1%. Coming up this hour,
Victoria [music] Fernandez across
markets. Investors shake off the noise.
Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy as the US
and India seal a trade deal and Vishel
Kandra of Morgan Stanley following
Oracle's $25 billion bond sale.
Elsewhere, we begin this hour with
stocks holding near record highs
following a choppy start to the week.
Victoria Fernandez across writing, "Rich
equity valuations and lots of optimism
set a high bar for positive surprises."
Victoria joins us now for more.
Victoria, welcome. Does that dampen
returns this year?
>> I think it does, Jonathan. I mean, you
walk into a year where you already have
pees above 22 times. You've got really
strong earnings, really strong profit
margins. You've priced in a lot of this
positivity that people are expecting to
see later this year. things from the one
big beautiful bill as it relates to
productivity as it relates to capex all
of this is kind of priced into the
market. So if we you know continue along
this path what is it that's going to
make us go higher? Is it continued good
earnings? Okay, well we've priced that
in. Is there going to be some kind of a
a black swan event that changes things?
I it makes it difficult I think to see a
ton of upside. Although I want to bring
some optimism to the show this morning.
So, I'm trying to be a little upbeat
here. We want to be in this market. We
want to be invested because we think we
will have positive returns, but in our
opinion, you're looking at much lower
returns than what you've seen over the
last couple of years.
>> Victoria, I think you framed the
challenge for investors coming into 26
quite nicely. Is it too early to fade
the benefits from fiscal monetary policy
and massive t capex over the last 12
months and over the next 12 months? Is
it too early to do that before we've
ever seen even seen some of the benefits
from those three pillars?
There are certain places where I think
you can go ahead and trim some of your
positions and those are going to be your
really high momentum names. So, not
necessarily trimming the things that we
think are going to benefit from those
elements we just talked about. But we
came in the year with that broad-based
momentum. You know, you look at small
and midcaps. Um, you know, we've seen
software come back. Now, the small
midcaps have come back. We've seen parts
of financials come back when you look at
private credit and insurance. So when
you've got this kind of um divergence
between performance on high momentum and
low momentum names, start trimming some
of those high momentum names. That's
where I would generate some cash and
have ready to implement on some of the
other names where you're having higher
trends. You're seeing things start to
develop. We still like big banks. We
like regional banks. You're seeing
energy. Now, Jonathan, 100% of the names
in the S&P energy sector are above their
200 day moving average. So, I think
there's some other places you can put
money to work. Trim the high momentum
names that have already had that run.
>> Victoria, is this the strategy for the
rest of the year? Essentially, just
follow the sort of rolling balls of
money into one area and then another
area and figure out when it's gotten
over its skis and then just fade a
little bit and ultimately it's a turn to
nowhere. It's a turn to sort of a pretty
exhausting small gain.
I hope it's not like that. I hope really
and and what we do for our investors
that are longerterm investors, you have
to build that foundation in your
portfolio. Those names that you know can
weather some of this. It is a midterm
election year. We know it's going to be
high volatility. You typically have
around a 19% pullback in a midterm
election year around the middle of the
year. So, you have to have a defensive
component to your portfolio. You have to
be willing to be tactical in the things
that you do. But that doesn't mean
you're constantly trading and having
churn in your portfolio. You have that
core component. And you know me, I'm
always going to tell you have a little
bit of fixed income in there. Well, I
think you're going to see a steepening
of this yield curve. There's different
elements of whether it'll be a bull
steepening or a bearish steepening, but
I think it's going to steepen
regardless. So, I think you have an
opportunity to add some cash flow from
fixed income as well.
>> This really goes to the core of what a
safety trade is. I mean, is safety found
in precious metals? Is that the ballast
of stability after what we've seen over
the past couple of weeks? Is it in fixed
income where you see long-term bond
yields as you're saying you're expecting
that steepening in the yield curve? I
mean, how much of the safety is
challenged in addition to some of what
momentum is on any given day?
>> Yeah, I think the definition of safety
definitely changes, Lisa. I mean, if you
had looked a couple years ago, safety
were these big tech names. It's the mag
seven names, right? That's where people
were looking for safety. and we see
what's kind of happened there and
concern around some of the capex and how
that money is going to be raised. Um and
I don't think you can look at staples.
Staples have had a horrible um turn over
the last 12 18 months although they are
starting to build a little bit. There
hasn't been a positive trend turn there
yet but there's some positivity there. I
think you're looking at companies that
have high quality factors. They have
decent momentum factors. You're looking
at things like big banks which you know
we like. You are looking at some things
like fixed income. But I think you can
add some materials and things in there
as well with the anticipation that we're
going to see manufacturing pick up.
>> Victoria, when you say you're getting
defensive because it's a midterm
election year, what is it about the
midterm elections that make you want to
be defensive? Because a lot of what
we're hearing out of Washington is noise
and might actually might not actually
come to fruition.
It's more kind of looking, Amarie, at
the fact that as you come into a midterm
election year, you typically have a lot
of policies that have been put in place
in order to generate positivity for the
country so that they go out and they
vote and they keep the administration in
place, right? But the problem is that's
already priced into the market. It's
what we talked about in the very
beginning of our conversation. And so,
as we go through a midterm election
year, you have to say, well, what's the
next thing that's going to help this
market do well? and there's volatility
back and forth on that. So, you've
already priced in the things that you
haven't quite received yet and you're
not sure what's coming down the pike and
you get lots of talk, lots of headlines
in midterm election years. You get
shutdowns like we're seeing right now
and you get data that's missing. So,
there's lots of that volatility. The VIX
tells us that. And when you have a short
positioning on the VIX like we saw last
week, that puts your equity market in,
you know, in a place where even more
volatility can happen. when there's bad
news. So, it's a a combination of those
factors that typically gives you a pull
down, but you start to do better at the
end of the year.
>> Is the retalian bank stocks given
everything just mentioned and Marie's
point about a midterm year and some of
the proposals. Is the retalian bank
stocks JP Morgan, Bank of America, City
all negative for the year so far?
>> Yeah, they are. And but we like these
companies and their balance sheets. And
to us, when you're going to have a a
year with a lot of ups and downs, lots
of obstacles to overcome, then I think
you want a company that can stand that
test of time and can stand that
volatility. Their balance sheets are
top-notch. And even regional banks,
we've seen them really shore up those
balance sheets. So, we think from terms
of cash flow, um, from terms of the
management of those banks, those are the
areas where you can put money to work
when you see pullbacks like you do right
now. And it's never going to be just
always, you know, straight up. You're
going to have these moments where these
pullbacks happen, but we think longer
term this is a great place to be.
>> It begs the question though, why isn't
the stock working? Why isn't the story
working now? What's leading the
pullback? And why does that go away
anytime soon?
>> Yeah, I think right now some of the
issues that you're seeing are in terms
of the Fed. Are we going to see a poly
policy mistake come out of the Fed?
Obviously, Wars now being named as the
potential new head and there's a lot of
concern around there. I I'm not as
concerned as the market is on these
names. I think when you look at Worse
and you look at the Fed, look, either
way, if he goes in and says we need to
cut rates and he convinces the rest of
the FOMC to go along with that, okay,
then you get your bare steepening in the
yield curve, that's positive for banks
and for financials. If he stays with his
more hawkish rhetoric that he's had in
the past and wants to reduce the balance
sheet even quicker, then you have the
longer end move up, that term premium
higher. again a steepening of the yield
curve which is good for banks. So I
think the outlook for banks looks good
and I think there's just a lot of noise
right now as to why we're seeing the
stocks behave the way they are because
earnings were pretty solid.
>> Victoria, it's good to see you. Victoria
Fernandez across my global investments.
Thank you. Is it Kevin Walsh or is it
credit cards? Because Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley those stocks don't have
that problem this year.
>> Yeah. So this ultimately is really a
question for a lot of people. How much
is the overhang of possible crackdown on
huge profits amid concerns about
affordability in a midterm election year
going to weigh on some of these stocks,
especially given how far they've come,
right? So, this is already coming from a
pretty significant uh place of a rally.
It is notable the divergence between the
Bank of America, JP Morgans, and the
likes of Morgan Stanley and Goldman
Sachs.
>> But John nailed it. It's a proposal. It
comes from the president's truth. And
this has been a proposal in Congress for
a lot of senators for years. And guess
what? It's not law. So, it's interesting
they haven't yet made up that space.
>> The businesses are okay. The companies
are doing fine. Victoria talked about
the balance sheets. Cool. Got that. The
stock story is different and there's
just a dark cloud hanging over the stock
story because of the proposals of the
last month.
>> There was speculation that some of these
big banks could become growth stocks
again, that they would be able to have
bigger balance sheets, be able to take
on more risk and engage in a way that
would allow them to generate profits in
the pre-inancial crisis era. There is a
question about whether that will be
hampered by some of the social pressure
and I think that that's what some people
are trying to evaluate.
>> The futures this morning positive by
about a tenth of 1% call it 210 of 1%
higher on the S&P 500. With an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump is calling on Republicans to
nationalize voting in the United States
ahead of this year's midterm elections.
[music] In a podcast interview with
former FBI director Dan Manino, the
president saying non-citizen voting is
improperly influencing election
outcomes.
Fiser shares are sliding in the
pre-market after a reported fourth
quarter earnings. The pharma giant
[music] beat sales estimates boosted by
its older drugs as it races to fill gaps
from its declining COVID vaccine and
pill franchises. But the company scaled
back its fullear guidance seeing tariffs
[music] having an impact of around $1.5
billion dollars.
PayPal shares trading lower in the
pre-market after it reported fourth
quarter results that missed Wall Street
estimates. The company posting a miss on
both the top and bottom lines. [music]
PayPal also announcing its CEO Alex
Chris will be replaced by HP CEO Enrique
Lores. And that is your Bloomberg brief.
John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Vonnie Quinn
there with the latest. Up next on the
program, a trade truce with India.
>> You know, we're making a deal with
India. Much different deal than we had
in the past. Well, right now the tariffs
are very high on India because of the
Russian oil and they've stopped doing
the Russian oil.
>> Up next, we catch up with Terry Haynes
of Panchia Policy live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
[music]
Here's
the price action this morning. Here's
the scores. Equity futures so far in
this session. So far so good. Spending
the whole session in positive [music]
territory up by two ten of 1% on the S&P
on the Nasdaq 100 by 0.4. Under Savannah
this morning, a trade truce with [music]
India.
>> You know, we're making a deal with
India, much different deal than we had
in the past. So, right now they don't
love me, but they'll love us. Again, uh
we're getting a fair deal, just a fair
trade deal. We had pretty unfair trade
deals. They're very good negotiators.
Just you have to take a look at that. If
you would, please. But we're getting
close. Right now, the tariffs are very
high on India because of the Russian oil
and they've stopped doing the Russian
oil.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump getting his deal.
The US and India agreeing to mutual
tariff reductions. New Delhi promising
to halt Russian oil purchases and buy
billions of dollars worth of
Americanmade goods. Bloomberg's Tyler
Kendall joins us now for the latest.
Good morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, this caps
months of negotiations, but with a
pretty sizable outcome, right, India is
going to see US tariffs on some of its
products in some cases dropped from a
combined 50% down to 18%.
India ships about a fifth of its total
exports to the US. So, our analysts at
Bloomberg Economics say that this should
help restore the country's
competitiveness since it did not lower
tariff rate compared to many of its
regional peers. Yet, we know India was
really lobbying for an even lower rate.
In fact, they were aiming for 15%. And
the fact that this ended up higher might
imply that Washington was pricing in
some weaker concessions than originally
expected because, as you all know, India
was one of those first countries that
came to the White House to negotiate.
But we really saw the trade talks go off
the rails over a number of sticking
points including but not limited to US
imports into India when it comes to
agricultural products and then of course
Russian oil. And while President Trump
has outlined the concessions India has
made all we have heard from the Indian
Prime Minister Modi is a confirmation of
a deal but no further specifics beyond
that. And there are some still big
questions on the table, including the
scale of reduction from Indian refiners
when it comes to Russian energy supplies
because while the White House has curbed
those flows into the country, they
haven't halted them altogether. The
president has also suggested that India
could start to import Venezuelan crude,
though we haven't gotten any details
there and whether or not that is somehow
linked to this deal. Uh John, I will
quickly point out the timing here. Of
course, we saw India last month clench a
long- aaited trade deal with the
European Union that had uh been expected
at that point for years. So, interesting
to see how the White House has now
closed the deal here as we've seen a lot
of allies try to diversify away from the
US.
>> About a week for India, that's for sure.
Tyler, thank you. Tyler Kendall down in
Washington DC. Terry Haynes of Pan
Geopolicy writing, "It's a strong signal
that Trump is walking and chewing gum at
the same time, not letting geopolitics
distract from US economic attention."
Terry joins us now for more. Terry, that
raises the question then. Who's next?
>> That's a very good question, John. And
uh you know, I'd look for uh among other
things a uh a strengthening of the uh
the US EU deal uh which would you know
which has been kind of on off on for you
know Davos related reasons. And um you
know beyond that I would look for uh uh
probably uh we should go out and look at
Asia a little bit more uh where the uh
the the trade deals uh can be
strengthened even further.
>> Terry Tyler mentioned it but Prime
Minister Modi was one of the first
officials to come to the White House. It
was almost a year ago February 13th of
last year. Yet basically a year later we
are getting a deal. Was damage done in
pushing India towards say China or
Russia because this deal took so long?
There's been a lot of uh you know Mod's
got his own politics of course but the
uh you know there's been a lot of back
and forth and a lot of uh kind of raw
elbows between the United States and
India and all kinds of things uh ranging
from uh the geopolitical scrapes with
between India and Pakistan and uh you
know frankly Trump's uh desire to take
credit for uh for the lessening of
hostilities there uh to the Russian oil
all kinds of other things many of which
Tyler mentioned And uh you know that has
made things uh more difficult than they
appeared to be last year when uh uh Modi
was talking about MAGA plus mega equals
MIGA or or MEGA whatever it was and uh
the uh you know but they they have had a
desire to do a deal for quite a while.
It's been obvious that things have been
thawing and uh you know I think there's
there's still some prickliness there but
uh you know there's a desire to do a
deal. Uh the other thing I'd say uh is
that you know for there's a lot of hand
ringing in markets always for the uh for
the lack of detail of these things and
that's entirely fair. But you look at
the other way that this this has been
done uh in prior years where deals have
been negotiated negotiated negotiated
they're never finalized. Finally,
they're finalized. Like the EU with
Merkasaur, which took 25 years and
they're still not done. So, uh uh
markets prefer progress. So, that's a
positive for markets.
>> Well, when it when you talk about the
prickliness of this deal, the president
made it clear they're not going to buy
any more Russian oil. We didn't hear
that from Modi.
>> Well, exactly. That's uh and you know, I
I made clear when I wrote that uh the
details of this many details of this
were not final. And uh I I imagine and I
am uh this is instinct on my part. I
imagine that the timing of winding down
Russian oil purchases uh is the major
reason why Modi isn't talking about
that. uh and I also imagine that there
are a variety of other details uh that
the both the United States and India
want uh also relating to timing
purchases of what when and how all those
sorts of things and uh that's about uh I
think that's the reason why we have kind
of a uh uh sliding deal here. Is there a
tell in this Terry that perhaps the US
is taking a harder approach with Russia
as a result of some of the ongoing
negotiations with European allies about
the war with Ukraine and Russia? And as
this key component of this deal, Russia
uh excuse me, India agreeing not to buy
Russian crude.
>> Yeah, I think so. I think it's a I think
it's a a major signal from this deal.
you know, the uh you know, Trump uh
Trump likes to to do what he can to uh
to butter up major adversaries and that
that gets offputting for domestic
audiences sometimes. Uh but there I
think there's no doubt that uh what the
United States is doing right now is
trying to push uh Russia and squeeze the
lifeblood of its war machine. uh then
European allies are helping uh you know
a lot of the uh ghost fleet activity uh
coming back into European waters has
been uh harassed uh and more and uh you
know so what you're seeing is a kind of
a ramped up effort uh based on what uh
not only the United States but more
importantly the Europeans are willing to
do they were not willing to for example
uh take frozen Russian assets and
convert those for Ukrainian use but they
are willing to do that. So the policy is
shifting to that and uh that will have
the usual effect on Russia's economy,
but it also makes uh China's support and
pumping up of the Russian client state
even more obvious than it is today.
>> Terry Haynes of Pangia Policy. Terry,
appreciate the update. Terry, thank you
very much. Rightly or wrongly, many
market participants aren't focused on
the details of any of this. They're
focused on the direction of travel.
Tariffs are coming down. They're not
going up and people are moving on.
people moved on even when there were
more tariffs that were put on. Uh when
there was sort of the suggestion of it
with Europe, it seems like people are
expecting the temperature to come down,
especially as affordability is
increasingly an issue in 2026.
>> Temperature to come down and then
potentially go back up. We have USMCA
being renegotiated this year. And also,
we still have not gotten the Supreme
Court decision on AIPA. Potentially,
we're going to get that in a few weeks
at the end of February. And does that
just create a lot more chaos and a
little bit of headaches and
headscratching for corporate America?
biggest surprise of the last 12 months,
the tension with Canada. Just did not
anticipate that at all.
>> If you look at Disney earnings, you can
see that one of the reasons why they
didn't have bigger growth in their parks
and recreation business is because
Canadians aren't coming. Canadian
tourists down 25%. They're not coming to
Florida. They're going straight to the
Caribbean. People are angry. Didn't see
that coming about how much that spout
was going to continue.
>> You're seeing it in the numbers. Equity
futures this morning positive by 210 of
1%. Coming up, [music] each prasad of
the Brookings Institution on the doom
loop facing the global economy. Plus,
Yihara has your morning mover as shares
of PayPal hammered down 15% from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
Snapping a three-day losing streak on
the S&P 500. Equities up yesterday up
again this morning by a quarter of 1% on
the S&P on the NASDAQ [music] up by 0.5
the number from Palanteer decent the
data issue $25 billion from Oracle just
yesterday wellreceived [music] lifted
enthusiasm for that whole ecosystem in
the last 24 hours and moving on pretty
quickly from that explosion in precious
metals gold silver up nicely already
this morning in the bond market 2 10 30
shaping up as follows going into the
data what data no payrolls Friday no
jolts data I believe either Uh, we're
waiting for ADP and ISM services [music]
over the next few days.
>> Yeah, it's ADP and ISM services
Wednesday and I'm so excited for it. I'm
going to be 100% there for it. It's the
reason why you saw such a significant
move yesterday on ISM manufacturing
because guess what? It's one of the few
data points that we're actually getting
and it [music] does suggest that we're
getting a rebound in some of the key
areas that President Trump has been
pushing for. Let's see if we see
something similar in services. Can we
get excited about ADP and ISM services
Wednesday? I'm going to try.
>> We'll try. We'll try to. The good news
is you [music] don't have to pretend
because ISM services comes out when
we're not on air. But that is a data
point I'll look to. ISM manufacturing
was good. It was solid yesterday.
>> I pretend. I get genuinely enthusiastic.
>> Think about it. It's authentic.
>> I will be genuinely enthusiastic at 6:00
a.m. the next morning.
>> Nothing disingenuous about any of this
at all. 10 year bonds near the top end
of the range for the year. 10-year bond
yields this morning 428. [music] With an
update on movers in the pre-market, your
morning movers. Here's Yahihara with
more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with PepsiCo. Shares
are [music] falling 3/4 of a percent.
The company did beat on earnings, but it
was only a slight beat. And with the
stock up about 8% year to date,
investors may have been looking for
more. We also have the Wall Street
Journal report saying that the company
plans [music] to slash prices by as much
as 15% on products like Lays potato
chips as they try to win over those
price conscious shoppers who the Wall
Street Journal reports have been calling
into PepsiCo to complain about the high
prices. Meanwhile, we have uh PayPal
shares plunging [music] in the
pre-market down 15 12%. Let's start with
the earnings which me seem to be the
main catalyst because they were pretty
[music] rough. The payments company
missing on both the top and bottom lines
and the growth picture doesn't look good
either. So for that reason they [music]
have chosen to make a shakeup at the top
appointing the CEO of HP Enrique Lores
to [music] lead the company as CEO. he
will replace Alex Chris with the board
chair saying that the pace of change
[music]
and execution by Alex was not in line
with expectations. And we end on US rare
earth stocks. They are [music] bucking
the trend up in the pre-market. Critical
metals up nearly 6% after President
Trump yesterday announced [music] a 12
billion strategic mineral stockpile, the
first of its kind for the US private
sector. All of this part of an effort
[music] to reduce reliance on China,
which dominates the market with an
estimated 85% of global processing
[music] capacity. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update.
More from Yihara in the next hour. On
our radar this morning, the BLS delaying
the release of the January jobs report
due to the partial government shutdown.
High Speaker Mike Johnson saying he
expects a continuing funding measure to
reopen federal agencies will be passed
later on today. Elsewhere, President
Donald Trump saying the criminal
investigation into Fed Chair J. Pal will
continue quote to the end. Republican
Senator Tom Tillis declaring he'll
oppose any new Fed nominee until the PAL
probe is fully resolved. And finally,
one to take note of Australia becoming
the first major economy to hike rates
this year. The Reserve Bank of Australia
expecting core inflation to peak at 3.7%
in June. Many economists expected the
central bank could deliver another hike
in May. Yeah, they raised their growth
and inflation forecasts during this
decision. They raised rates to 3.85%
from 3.6%. What is different about
Australia? This is what's interesting to
me. They are at the epicenter of this
whole uh sort of revenge of the real
world. They produce some of the greatest
volume of iron ore, of coal, even of
silver and gold. They have all of these
mines. And so ultimately, their economy
has been bolstered by this. It is just
Australia and Japan. everybody else is
in a holding pattern. But it does
highlight how it does seem like these
divergencies are growing, divergences
are growing in a world that is
incredibly multifaceted. I mean really
the different kind of influences here
are amazing.
>> It's a fascinating time in financial
markets. One of the reasons of course
that Australia and the Aussie dollar is
the best performing currency in G10 over
the last 12 months. They want inflation
in a band of two to 3%. Inflation's
closer to four than it is to three.
That's a problem. I'd throw this out
there too. They've got a big problem
domestically now with the politics of
the mortgage market and housing. Housing
in Australia is absolutely ridiculous
and rates are going up in the wrong
direction for a lot of people who need
to service some of those houses.
>> This is the reason why you look at the
economics and it looks really good and
then you look at the politics of it and
how this sort of plays into it and I
think that increasingly this is going to
be the discussion. How do you get six
months, 12 months down the line in terms
of the policy response at a time where
there is a dual mandate for all of these
central banks? They are facing off with
uh people who cannot afford their
lifestyles at the same time that the
overall economies seem to at least in
aggregate be booming.
>> Governor Bulock calling the situation
unacceptable down in Australia. Let's
turn to trade. President Donald Trump
striking a new deal, lifting tariffs on
India. The world now one year into
President Trump's push to remake global
trade in his second term. Ishwar Prasad,
senior fellow at the Brookings
Institute, offering a cleareyed account
of the forces at play in his latest book
titled The Doom Loop: Why the Economic
Order is Spiraling into Disorder. Ishwar
joins us now for more. Professor, it's
good to see you.
>> It's good to see you as well.
>> We bumped into each other in the last
few weeks and I think it's fair to say
this is not the book you wanted to
write.
>> This is indeed not the book I planned to
write. I plan to write a much sharer
book about how we are moving from a
uniolar world in after the collapse of
the Soviet Union where the US became the
dominant power in every respect economic
military financial to one where economic
power at least is more evenly
distributed across countries as an
economist who instinctively one things
competition is good for efficiency
balance and stability but it turns out
that the forces that I thought would
lead us towards a stable equilibrium and
perhaps now we're just in a period of
transitional volatility as I thought
about it, it occurred to me that each of
these forces is in fact engineering more
instability rather than stability and
therefore the doom loop.
>> When did you finish the first draft?
>> October of 2024. And at the time it
seemed like the book was a little too
dark. So I said let's wait for the
November 2024 elections. Maybe rethink
the thesis because you know my heart was
pulling in one direction which was a
positive direction. My head was pulling
in the other direction. But then of
course everything that has happened over
the last 14 months has validated if not
turbocharged the thesis the book sadly
for the world
>> the last 12 months is questioning a lot
of what we were taught in international
relations. In fact if you go to the
textbooks they'll tell you that the era
in which the British Empire and Britain
maintained the global order followed
onto the era that America led the global
order and a lot of that changed because
Britain no longer had the economic means
to maintain it. The situation here that
I think is rather unique in economic
history is that we have an unwilling
hedgeimon. It's a hedgeimon that
actually has the power to maintain it
but is unwilling to do so. How unique is
that?
>> It is a very odd time in the world
because there are two superpowers. One
as you said is seeming to want to seed
its role as the global hedgeimon uh
providing global leadership. The other
superpower needs uh or is trying very
hard to establish his position. But the
problem is that the rest of the world
everybody is stuck in the middle. The
middle powers seem to view both of these
as untrustworthy, unreliable allies. So
they're sort of bouncing between each
other. So that's where the instability
comes from. Rather than these two forces
basically stabilizing each other with
the middle powers adding some stability,
each of the middle powers is actually
creating even more instability because
you're teetering from one side to the
other.
>> Why are you not seeing this more in
markets? We saw occasional flare-ups of
sell America, of sell the dollar, of a
weaker dollar. We did see that last
year, but not necessarily a wholesale
exodus. Why are we not seeing it in a
more significant way if this really is
coming to pass?
>> So, the doom loop is about how
economics, politics, and geopolitics are
stuck in this negative feedback loop.
But it turns out the doom loop is not
inconsistent with things looking very
good on the surface. In fact, it's when
things look calm on the surface and
there are tensions building up
underneath that you have potentially
worse outcomes. And we may be in a
similar moment. And certainly the US is
in some sense unique. It remains a very
dynamic economy. Although the
institutions are being frayed before our
very eyes, it still has relatively
strong institutions and it's been able
to generate one thing that no other
major advanced or emerging market
economy has been able to since the co
period which is enormous productivity
growth. When productivity looks so good
and we don't fully know why this is
happening, that makes everything add up.
It could be AI. It could be
deregulation. But there is something
fundamental about the dynamism of the US
economy and the fact that no matter how
weak it seems in terms of institutions,
in relative terms, it still looks pretty
good compared to other countries.
>> How do you see the doom loop manifesting
itself down the line? I mean, we've
heard the Ray Dalio uh line of thought
of civil war and and all sorts of uh
revolutions as you get sort of one uh
great behemoth getting passed to another
hegeimon to rule the world in a certain
kind of way. How do you see it kind of
evolving?
>> So I'm an economist Lisa and you know
certainly I know that economics,
domestic politics and geopolitics go on
parallel tracks and occasionally they
intersect with each other. But we are at
a moment right now where these are
intertwined in a way that is very
difficult to separate. Which is why as
an economist I'm venturing into this
broader territory. But there are times
when this feedback loop is positive.
During the 1990s, the 2000s, there was a
sense that this um feature of
globalization, for instance, might work
well for everybody. There would be a
positive sum game that would offset the
intrinsically zero sum game of
geopolitics. But now, even
globalization, especially trade, is seen
as a zero sum or negative sum game. And
that means that there is no balancing
force to geopolitics anymore. So this is
why I fear that we are stuck in this
loop where essentially each of these
elements brings out the worst in each
other rather than the best.
>> Are there not any positive outcomes
though? NATO is spending more. Europe is
trying to do more in terms of the Trump
administration pushing them. There might
be a deal on Greenland. This
administration is going after rare
earths where China absolutely dominates
not just owning them but processing
them. Isn't some of this also positive
in terms of feedback loop?
>> Certainly. Um and moments of crisis can
sometimes bring out the best in
countries and for instance in the case
of Europe when its territorial integrity
is threatened as was the case with
Ukraine or with Greenland Europe you
know stiffens its spine. The question is
whether there is a political will to do
what is necessary to do the positive
things that are necessary to improve
productivity and growth in the economy
and there the internal dissensions
within the Euro zone seem to be holding
things apart. So it is true that there
are times when we might be able to pull
these dynamics in a positive direction,
but as I argue in my book, what it's
going to take is very engaged citizens,
uh, business community and national
leaders who can help us see beyond our
short-term prejudices and better
institutions, domestic and
international.
>> I feel like Prime Minister Mark Carney
read your book because this feels part
of what he was talking about in Davos
with his speech. How are middle
countries in terms of what you're seeing
deciding on whether or not to get closer
to Beijing or to stay with Washington?
>> They are stuck between these really um
unsavory alternatives because you know
the US as we were just discussing is
receding from its role um of providing
leadership. China's not quite trusted
anymore because of its institutional
framework. So take India uh is using
this approach of what they call issue
based alliances. When it comes to the
matter of cheap oil, it sticks with
Russia and China. But on the other hand,
it sees its fundamental values as
aligned more closely with the west. So
India could be a balancing force but
it's not quite happening. And if you
look at the middle powers and
unfortunately I put Europe in them
because it could be a great power but
it's not ascending to it. They have a
lot of dissimilarities rich poor
countries small large countries they
should be coming together but as Marani
said the pragmatic approach might be
these issue based alliances but that
doesn't build deeprooted alliances that
will stick through uh difficult and good
times. Professor, what do you think went
wrong? What do you think went wrong? How
did we get here?
>> That's exactly what the book is about. I
think the reason the feedback loop
turned negative is if you think about
the benefits of something like
globalization as we economists uh
recognize and measure them at the
aggregate level, they were very good.
But there was a disgruntled class of
people who felt that they were left out
not just in terms of losing jobs but in
terms of losing opportunity. And what
they saw was that the benefits were
going to the economic and political
elites and they didn't need to do
anything illegal or illegitimate. They
just captured the political process. So
that infected domestic politics and that
in turn is now affecting geopolitics as
we can see in the context of the USChina
relationship but even the US
relationship with traditional allies
like Europe and Canada. So this is where
the loop is going to be very difficult
to get out of again unless we have the
corrective mechanisms working well and
that's going to take better
institutions.
>> Professor, it's good to see you. Book on
sale today.
>> Today indeed.
>> Best of luck with sales, sir. We
appreciate your time. I've got a copy on
my desk. I'm going to start reading it
today. Ishwar Prasad of the Brookings
Institution, author of the doom loop.
Why the world economic order is
spiraling into disorder. Something you
and I have discussed quite a few times.
What globalization did to manufacturing?
What will AI do to services?
>> Yeah. You start talking about the
aggregate numbers that look okay and
then people not feeling okay. It kind of
is deja vu all over again when you take
a look at what's going on right now and
it's the reason why you're getting a lot
of political push back to some of the AI
initiatives that we're seeing.
>> That's the next book, isn't it? Maybe.
Let's get you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Vonnie Quinn.
Hey Vonyie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Secretary of
Homeland Security Christy Gnome is
requiring that all the department's
officers on the ground in Minneapolis
wear body cameras. The secretary making
the announcement yesterday on social
media. President Donald Trump saying he
thinks it's generally good for law
enforcement to wear cameras.
President Trump says he's seeking a
billion dollars in quote unquote damages
from Harvard University after [music]
the New York Times reported that his
administration had backed off demands
for 200 million to satisfy accusations
of wrongdoing by the Ivy League
institution. [music]
Trump called the Times article quote
completely wrong.
Today's show host Savannah Guthri's
mother is missing. Nancy Guthrie was
last seen on Saturday near her home in
Tucson, Arizona. Police in Pima County
believe she was abducted from her home
while she slept. Officials say the
disappearance is being treated as
[music] a crime and are urging neighbors
to check home surveillance footage. And
that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next on the program, big tech
[music] debt binge. This AI spending
trade is getting an audit right now and
and the audit is telling you if you have
leverage on balance sheet and you're
committing to spend, you better have a
way to demonstrate to investors that
there's some monetization.
>> That conversation up next with Vishel
Kanducha of Morgan Stanley from New York
City. [music] You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance.
[music]
>> [music]
>> Stocks are up by a third of 1% on the
S&P 500, up by 0.5 on the NASDAQ. The
Russell Small caps up by a third and
Savas this morning. Big techs debt
bench.
There's a lot of stocks that are triple
B or below that have committed to a lot
of spending. This AI spending trade is
getting an audit right now and and the
audit is telling you if you have
leverage on balance sheet and you're
committing to spend. You better have a
way to demonstrate to investors that
there's some monetization or some return
on that investment. [music]
If not, you're going to you're going to
kind of be punished in the credit
market.
>> So, here's the latest this morning.
Oracle easing fears of an AI debt bubble
by outlining fundraising plan split
between equity and credit markets.
Vishal Kandudra of Morgan Stani writing,
"We view the spend from a cautious debt
holder vantage point. negative overall
but have idiosyncrasies overweight in
certain issuers. Vishal joins us now for
more. Vish good morning to you.
>> Morning.
>> This is my very amateur understanding of
the last 24 hours. So there was an
equity component to the capital raise.
So debt holders were happy and equity
holders were happy because debt holders
were happy. Is that the way things
played out in the last 24 hours?
>> A little bit but there was commitment
from IG from the company about IG
ratings. I think if you take a step back
they issued in September spreads widen
probably about 100 basis points almost
pricing mid doubleB levels lack of uh
certainty about how much they want to
issue and then all the multi-layer
contracts that uh we can question about
as well then they come out listen to the
debt holders yes you cannot do this
without you know destroying your own
capital structure uh bringing in equity
issuance even at when the stock is down
50 60% at these levels so there is
significant commitment to investment
grade and that's spreads have snapped
back. Now again spreads are not as tight
as some of the double A hyperscalers out
there 1700 wider. I think double B
spreads are on an index level 155. I
think the 10ear here is probably about
140 145. So still not out of the woods.
So there is definitely risk being priced
in.
>> So we're sitting there straddling the
dividing line between junk and
investment grade. And typically when
capex is ti assigned or tied to a
multi-year contract that's not
speculative particularly when the
company has a strong balance sheet. Now,
that's where there is a big question
mark because this capex is tied to
multi-year contracts with a range of
companies, but the one that's in a
spotlight is Open AI. How speculative is
that story?
>> Definitely, but I think you're seeing
quite a bit of earnings come out where
cash flows are real at this point. Yes,
I think when you extend out that NPV,
some of these cash flows are still
negative and I think some of the equity
raises will help on the other side to
allay those fears and that's why I think
you're pricing in probably double B type
of levels on on on the overall debt
here. So you're not pricing in double A
or single A type of levels. I think one
more uh piece if I could make what is
happening in probably if you look back
probably last 5 to 10 years or probably
15 years going back to 2008 the
financial crisis the makeup of the
indices matters a lot because there's
quite a bit of passive money going in.
Now all this AI capex infrastructure
with these long bonds you're going to
have five seven extra percent market
value and spread duration in equity uh
fixed income indices that you know
passive buyers cannot just ignore. Let's
build on that. Uh there was a Bank of
America survey of credit investors
recently that showed that the majority
expect hyperscaler related investment
grade debt to be somewhere between 100
and $300 billion so far this year. We're
seeing the composition of what's
considered investment grade change as a
greater proportion comes from some of
these hyperscalers. Does that make
investment grade riskier?
>> Absolutely. I think you're going through
a time period between 2003 to 2005 where
you had basically balance sheets peaking
out in credit quality. You're having the
same issue right now because the
issuance now again the starting points
are extremely extremely solid where you
have companies who've gotten probably 7
to 10 years of extreme amount of cash
flows in there. They're sitting at
double AAA levels. I would say that if
some of these hyperscalers came out
yesterday, we saw one of them the the
lower quality one, but if the higher
quality comes comes out, they'll have
more sort of debt book buildup more than
30-year treasuries at this point. So,
the starting points are extremely solid,
but yes, you're in the deterioration of
credit on some of these parts. How do
you explain the volatility that we've
seen in the metals market, the
volatility in headline risk, the
volatility that we're seeing in
sentiment, and then a global bond binge
that is unprecedented so far to start
2026? We've already seen more than a
trillion dollars in total issuance
coming from governments and the likes of
financial companies and the likes of
Oracle. How do you square those two
ideas?
>> Quite a bit going on. So I think if you
can take a step back and parse it out.
We think that there's a bessent moment
happening with wars at least the
nomination. I think we still have to go
through the uh the clearing of that. I
think there were three or four
individuals who were in the running more
considered to be uh very close to the
white house and then you picked a person
who supposedly at least on paper can
build a lot of consensus that it needed
in the divided Fed. That's why you saw a
massive sort of move in the dollar curve
steepened out because watch is going to
be very doubbish for the front end, very
hawkish for the back end on that part
and then the dollar regains a little bit
at least momentarily a little bit um of
of credit back that it had lost over the
last two months. I think also what is
happening if you can take a step back
you go back to 2008 2005 where these
feds Fed swap lines were given out to
different central banks. I don't think
that the global central bank sitting in
Europe or somewhere other part of a
developed world can confidently say that
if it if they're going through a credit
crisis that they can put in a call to
get extra dollars. That's why you're
seeing a massive amount of flow into
debasement trade whether it's cyclical
currencies whether it's dollar whether
it's um sorry the gold etc. Now the
issue with volatility is you have a
market that has extreme amount of
liquidity and buyers and sellers in it
which is about 20 29 30 trillion of US
treasuries that you're taking a piece of
that market and it's moving into very
tiny markets on the other side gold 5
10% is outstanding for
>> is that debasement or diversification
and is that a distinction without a
difference
>> I think there is definitely a
distinction great point John I think um
on on we think it is uh diversification
at the moment moment but it is coming
from extreme amounts of overall
allocation to the US dollar over the
last 15 years I think so initial part
will definitely be diversification but
there will be more avenues that uh
investors
>> shouldn't that shove up in risk assets
eventually
>> eventually it should be cost of capital
for the US treasury and then high
quality debt and then lowquality debt
would slowly increase but I think the
fundamentals overall in the US economy
still are pretty rock solid uh on the
other side and that's why you're seeing
the Even if it is a trillion dollars of
supply coming through, books are still
four to six times over subscribed.
>> We've seen that in the last 24 hours.
That's for sure. With that one dead
issue, $25 billion from Oracle Vishel
Clinic. Good to see you. Lots to think
about. Thank you. Vishel Kanduja of
Morgan Stanley. Morgan Stanley calling
the appointment of Kevin Walsh a
stabilizing event. A stabilizing event
for this market and some of those
trades, those explosive moves we've seen
in precious metals.
>> Yeah. a bessent moment and maybe drawing
more people into the fixed income market
by expecting more stability based on
some of the past expectations from Kevin
Worsh. I'm sitting here thinking about
how Esar Prasad and Vichel Kuja are
having very similar kinds of, you know,
the world is changing. It doesn't look
like that. It's got a very stable
surface, but right now the world is
changing before our eyes and it will
gain steam. [music] That's sort of my
takeaway.
>> All these little convulsions popping up
in different markets. Seen it in JGBs
and precious metals. [music]
When are we going to really see it show
up in credit markets and equities?
Because we haven't seen that just yet.
Coming up, Dan Greenhouse of Solos, Jay
Goldberg [music] of Seapport Global,
Yolena Schilleta of the Conference
Board, and Chris Harvey of CIBC. The
third hour [music] up next,
[music]
>> we were seeing AI jitters coming back
into the market.
>> The risk atmosphere is elevated.
>> If I broke tech down, the dispersion
between the halves and the halves are
almost unbelievable. People should not
be so concerned about the absolute
increase in overall market
capitalization. The concern should be
the concentration.
>> Earnings growth is the last engine of
return. And look, it's still on. That
engine's still going.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning. For our
audience worldwide, the third hour of
Bloomberg Survey starts right now. Your
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P [music]
up by a few ten of 1% up by 0.5 on the
NASDAQ. Tech earnings in focus tomorrow
[music] and the day after. Waiting for
Alphabet, waiting for Amazon. You'll
notice the week ahead picture has
changed a little bit on Friday. [music]
No payrolls data. Things are a little
bit lighter now given the government
shutdown.
>> So, we're going to be having a greater
emphasis on ISM services and [music] ADP
data coming out tomorrow. And frankly,
the earnings are getting the do they
deserve because that is probably the
most reliable data that we can get right
now. And it's not just what we get in
the results, but also how the [music]
market responds to it. What we saw with
a meta before as well as Apple is
spending isn't always good. That I think
is going to be what [music] to watch for
the likes of Amazon and Alphabet.
>> Tech at the moment. Look, hardware
versus software, very different
performance dispersion within Mag
[music] 7. Take Meta versus Microsoft
just last week. Anything but snoozy for
these tech earners right now. And you
just wonder what the picture looks like
by the time we get to the [music]
weekend. Alphabet versus Amazon.
>> Yeah, especially at a time where you
haven't seen big tech reprise some of
their all-time highs that you saw late
last year. So, [music] there does seem
to be this bigger question hanging over
markets. Can you get momentum back into
[music] uh the equity indices if you
don't have the participation of big
tech? This really is the ultimate litmus
test. How do investors respond to some
[music] of these earnings?
>> And it's almost interesting now more so
because we have this spat what's going
on with Nvidia and Open AAI behind the
scenes it seems like Jensen [music] Wong
is questioning Open AI and not really
going full gang busters in and at the
same time behind the scenes according to
[music] these reports Sam Alman is
saying well actually we're looking for
alternatives cuz we're not quite sure
about those chips and what does this
mean for the other tech hyperscalers?
[music] Yeah, they are, let's just say,
offended maybe by the Wall Street
Journal report that Jensent is not
impressed with the way they're spending
money. Is that fair to say?
>> I think that's fair to say. I think that
that is the reason why you're getting
that lash out with respect to [music]
maybe some of the Reuters reporting that
guess what, we don't like your trips
anyway. But at the end of the day, it
does seem like OpenAI is in a different
zone. And it really remains to be seen
how much it is increasingly a liability
for some of the big uh tech companies
that have been investing in it. Stocks
positive this morning by a quarter of 1%
on the S&P 500. Coming up, we'll catch
up with Dan Greenhouse of Solace with
stocks trading near all-time highs. Jay
Goldberg of Seapport Global looking
ahead to a big week of big tech earnings
and Chris Harvey of CIBC anticipating a
washled Fed to favor Main Street over
Wall Street. We begin this hour with
stocks pushing towards fresh records
driven by a strong start to earnings
season. Dan Greenhouse of Solace writing
the following. Results are on balance,
better than expected. Nothing in the
hyperscala reports suggested an AI
slowdown. Dan joins us now for more.
Dan, good morning.
>> Good morning to you, sir.
>> Let's get to tech. And we talked about
that dispersion meta versus say
Microsoft and within Mag 7, then you've
got software versus hardware. How
difficult is it to approach this sector
this year?
>> It's obviously quite difficult. I I but
I have a differentiated view on this. I
I think if you if we if someone in the
control room could throw up a 5-year
chart of Oracle, let's say, I don't
think that's a bad looking chart.
Obviously, there's an issue going on
right now and the point I've made
repeatedly uh for the last year or so is
Oracle is very much its own thing and
what's going on there. Uh as is the case
with Salesforce and and Adobe, let's
say, but the charts of Adobe and
Salesforce in terms of the software
conversation look way worse than a lot
of other names in tech and and the in
the case of Oracle, which is getting
lumped in in in a lot of respects with
with the carnage across tech. So, here's
the chart of Oracle. Yeah, it's it's 50%
off its highs. Thank you, control room.
Um, yeah, it's 50% off its highs, but I
bet an investor over the last couple of
years is perfectly happy with Oracle's
performance annualized over over that
time frame. And and listen, there's a
lot going on. They're raising $50
billion yesterday. Obviously, um,
they've got to play catch-up in terms of
building out the hyperscalers to meet
its contract with OpenAI. Uh, and
there's a lot of worry about that and it
higher leverage levels. But again, as a
long-term investor in Oracle, you're
probably not too upset. So let's just
take the last 12 months and park the
last 5 years because the last 12 months
is far more interesting particularly the
last six. The capex buildout. How
speculative is that capex buildout?
That's been the number one question
throughout this morning and I understand
people are a little bit more comfortable
with the capital raise of the last 24
hours or so. But where do you actually
stand on the fundamentals of the company
and the way it's priced at the moment?
>> I read through I'm not a particularly
large tech investor. We don't own any of
these large tech names. I that's that's
pretty clear. But I read through all
these earnings reports. They all look
pretty good to me. I think a lot of the
variation in terms of of price movement
on a daily basis is a function of
expectations versus reality. But when
you step away from that and look just in
an absolute basis, all these companies
are doing pretty well to varying
degrees. In terms of the investment,
we're getting hundreds of I I think now
that the hyperscalers are going to do
about $640 billion worth of of capexy or
some number like that. Um I'm positive a
lot of this is lighting money on fire.
Um, the question is when does that fire
go up, so to speak? And as an investor,
it's it's the the issue that you
struggle with the most because I we've
talked about the late 90s before.
People were talking about a bubble in
the infrastructure build out in the
'90s. In 1995, in 1996, in 97,98, and so
on. And it wasn't until 99 when things
went absolutely just insane in the in
the back half of the year that people
started to point to certain things that
were legitimate worries. The time has
come. I think the problem you have as an
investor now is you look at this level
of investment, you know, some of it's
going to be malinvestment and and
wasteful, but there's no indication as
of now that it's slowing down. You just
need to look at SanDisk's most recent
report, for example.
>> There's an extra wrinkle here, which is
that the spending that they're doing has
fueled GDP.
>> The spending that they're doing is
supporting the entire economy, and
without that, arguably we'd be in
actually a pretty weak economy.
>> I disagree with that, but okay.
>> Okay. Well, that please. No, actually,
I'd like to go there. How do you sort of
back out some of the uh ongoing capex
spend from some of the big tech players
and figure out what's left over?
>> So, uh I've done a little bit of work on
this, but I'll defer to Goldman who did
more work than I did. And I think Yan,
uh has a report out in the last couple
of weeks or months, uh making the case
that this is completely overblown from
his I may not go that far, but that that
obviously AI and the investment has been
contributo to GDP, no denying that. But
the degree to which some people are
arguing that it's half of all growth or
threequarters all all growth is
overdone. The limited work I've done
sort of corroborates that as well. I
come down on the side of
>> Can I just ask you what number you put
it at because I think Michael Semlas of
JP Morgan put it at about 40%. 40% of
the growth of the first three quarters
of last year.
>> Yeah. I'm probably close to a third or a
quarter. It's that it's kind of Yeah,
but it's not some people saying GDP
would be cut in half or or dare I say
recessionary. Not that you just said
that, but I'll I'll build the straw man
for a moment here. Thank you. Go ahead.
>> Um, but um, so so so for me, I've always
come down, listen, this is still a
consumer-led economy. Uh, it's not the
the 70% that everybody says because you
need to X out a couple of items, but the
consumer is doing fine. And to me, that
and investment is what's driven GDP over
the last couple of quarters. And and as
I mentioned earlier, nothing in either
the AI reports, the the metas in the
Microsoft tell me that story is slowing
down. And when you look at the likes, we
don't have too many consumer companies
yet, but when you look at Mastercard and
Visa and American Express who see
spending across uh destinations, all
told us that the consumer is basically
fine as well.
>> Sure, people can fly to Fiji, but they
can't buy Lays potato chips unless you
lower the price, right? I mean, this is
sort of the essentially the conundrum
for the past couple of years. Yes, we
did see uh American Express and the
credit card companies come out with
really good results, but then Pepsi
today is talking about 10 to 15% price
cuts. across uh the board. Flaming Hot
Cheetos, John's favorite, uh is going to
be cut in price. I'm just wondering what
the signal is for you. I mean, how
strong is a consumer that needs price
cuts in order to keep buying Laz potato
chips?
>> So, there's two conversations here, and
there's no way to do this uh without
offending somebody. So, I will try my
best.
>> Don't offend someone.
>> Um there is two conversations here. One
is me as an investor and then one is me
as like a human being living here on
Earth. Obviously, you want everybody to
participate in growth. Uh, and and the
idea that lower-income consumers and the
reality that lower-income consumers are
struggling in this environment from a
human standpoint is obviously um a a a
problem that needs a solution. It for
sure the consumers, you mentioned Pepsi,
the consumer stable companies for two
years now, you go through their reports
and all their uh sales increases are
price volumes have been going down
forever and ever. from an investor
standpoint and this has sort of been my
argument for two years now. I don't care
as much
>> and I that's I'm offended.
>> It could be there's someone watching
might be offended at me saying that but
I have to invest in the world as it is
and as as much as I care about obviously
everybody participating that's
capitalism is about that to some degree.
Um as an investor it matters much less
to me. Isn't this the year where
investors have to take note because the
president is now taking note and
introducing remedies to this problem
that could have consequences for the
market?
>> Absolutely. The cloud that's hanging
over the JP Morgan cities and Bank of
Americas of this world right now, the
fact that those stocks are trading
negative and a lot of people would say
the difference between Morgan Stanley
and Goldman and that bucket of stocks
and the other bucket is some have credit
cards and the others don't.
>> Sure. Listen, obviously the president
has taken aim at at at credit card
rates. Uh I don't think anything's going
to get done there. Like I I certainly
don't think I'm in the minority. I would
just note, yeah, the big banks are in
trouble, but the regional banks uh are
doing quite well. Um uh you know, Wells
Fargo is down, Cityroup is down. That
whole group is down, but but the KRE is
up on the year. Call it four or 5% or
something like that. Um yeah, that the
the affordability crisis I I care very
much about it from a human level.
>> I get that. I'm totally with you.
Tomorrow's prices don't care about your
politics or your feelings. I understand
that. But tomorrow's prices care about
policy and the policies that are being
introduced right now, whether you think
they're going to go through or not, are
having consequences for stocks. And I
think that's the conversation we're
trying to have.
>> Sure. The president's trying to jawbone
this and and deservedly so. The housing
story is probably the biggest issue at
the center of everything that's going on
in politics and markets right now. Um,
on my LinkedIn page, I've talked about
this repeatedly. the the the politician
that tries to address the housing story
most convincingly is going to have a
following to to an nth degree larger
than everybody else because it is the
death of capitalism, young people's um
lack of interest in democracy and then
uh tilt tilt towards communism,
socialism at its core is the inability
to buy a home or live the quote unquote
American dream. So I'm all for it, but
at the same time you do have the
president saying I don't want home
prices to go down. So there are
>> but it's not just credit card, it's not
just housing. It's going after the
defense sector on buybacks and
dividends. It's taking equity stakes and
>> the chart of Locky Martin does not tell
me that's too much of an issue.
>> Well, it's also taking equity stakes and
picking winners and losers of certain
companies. ISM, you look at some of this
commentary, confused and uninformed
tariff policies continue to plague small
companies. Don't you have to care about
this
>> and actually make an investment decision
based on it?
>> Yes, we pay attention to all of this.
The question is you have to in the
hierarchy of concerns a phrase I've been
using for some time here as an investor
what matters most and it is the
fundamentals of the company and there
will be times where uh a politician in
this case the president saying let's cap
credit card rates or let's subsidize uh
cash for clunkers type programs uh has
an effect on the investment landscape.
But as fundamental bottom-up investors,
ultimately the fundamentals of the
company are what matter. And so the
types of companies we invest in, you
want to be as far, generally speaking,
you want to be as far away from this as
possible. You don't want politicians
meddling in your investment process
either on the positive or certainly not
on the negative. Um, and and for a lot
of investors, we have learned after 10
years of this to filter out what is
consequential, what is going to matter,
what is going to have an effect,
regulations, executive orders, etc.,
etc., and what probably won't, which is
I want credit card rates to be lower
when it actually takes an act of
Congress to do that.
>> It's funny, I thought of you when that
Mastercard report came out. I was like,
Dan Greenhouse would be looking at this
and not the numbers from the conference
board.
>> Yeah, this essentially is what we've
continued to see is people looking away
from some of the classic indicators
because of exactly this.
>> Do you want to thank the control room
just before you go?
>> Thank you for quickly having up the but
this is why the crack control room here
at Bloomberg surveillance.
>> Bobby's quick, right? If there was an
Emmy award for chart uh
>> ticker [laughter] ticker manifestation,
I think this gym in the control room cuz
there's certainly a gym, is there not?
>> Yeah. No, there's a Jimmy and a Bobby.
>> Jimmy and a Bobby
>> both getting it done.
>> Of course.
>> Thank you. Yeah, Dan Greenhouse.
Appreciate your time. Thank you very
much. Of Solus Alternative Asset
Management. Let's give you an update on
news worldwide. Your Bloomberg brief
with Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. President Donald
Trump is pushing House Republicans to
accept a deal he struck with Democrats
to end the partial government shutdown.
In a post on Truth Social, Trump told
lawmakers [music] to swiftly pass the
measure with no changes. The bill would
fund most agencies through September and
the Department of Homeland Security
through February 13th.
Elon Musk is combining SpaceX and XAI at
a $1.25 trillion valuation.
>> [music]
>> Musk says the company will work on AI,
rockets, space-based internet, and other
technologies. Sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the company is still planning
an IPO later this year. The offering
could raise as much as $50 [music]
billion in what would be the biggest
initial share sale to date.
Former President Bill Clinton and his
wife, former Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton, will appear before a
congressional committee investigating
Jeffrey Epstein. The [music] House
Oversight Committee had planned a full
House vote to hold the Clintons in
criminal contempt if they continued
defying [music] subpoenas. And that is
your Bloomberg brief, John.
>> Hey, Vonyie. Thank you. More from Vonyie
in about 30 minutes time. Up next, the
morning cause plus Jay Goldberg of
Seapport Global looking ahead to a big
[music] week of big tech earnings from
New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[music]
Nvidia continues to have the best
ecosystem out there. Whether it be the
hardware they produce or whether it be
their, you know, their their software
ecosystem, you got OpenAI making
commitments with everybody here over the
last 6 to9 months. [music] And um in
reality, it doesn't matter necessarily
to Nvidia who wins this game at the
customer level. Um but they want to be
involved, I think, across the board.
>> That was Angela Zeno of CFRA from New
York City. Welcome to the program. Your
scores look like this. futures positive
by a quarter of 1% on the S&P on the
Nasdaq 100 up by 0.5. That's your price
action. Here are your morning calls.
First up, City upgrading JetBlue [music]
to neutral, seeing upside risk for the
shares. Their stock is up by 2%. Your
second call from Bed upgrading Palanteer
to outperform following earnings. The
firm saying Palanteer's guidance implies
further growth acceleration. And
finally, Mizuo [music]
raising its price target on Alphabed to
400 ahead of earnings. The firm seeing
potential [music] for the online
advertising market to accelerate in 26.
That stock is up by 1.2%. Let's turn
back to one of our top stories today.
Elon Musk consolidating his empire,
combining SpaceX [music]
and XAI at a $1.25 trillion valuation.
Bloomberg's Ed Ledllo has more for us.
Good morning, G. What a valuation.
Yeah, the math is worth mathing on. Um,
you know, my understanding is simply an
all stock transaction that values the
SpaceX part at 1 trillion and the XAI
part at 250 billion. And on a technical
basis, XAI just becomes a subsidiary of
SpaceX. There are lots of questions
about the debt pile that SpaceX is
taking on because XAI had a lot of debt.
Um but you know this it to the mind of
like all the investors that I've spoken
to both sides of the table is completely
logical. Um it is a jump from SpaceX's
prior valuation of $800 billion and the
tender it did at the end of last year. A
tender being a chance for employees to
sell their own shares in an insider
transaction and and a slight jump on XAI
from the 230 billion on on the equity
raise they did in their series E. But
you know the the totality of it, the
bigger picture is so much more than than
that. And and are we still headed for
that big IPO in June?
>> Well, that's the question for me. We got
this big stay in private. What is the
need to go public?
>> Yeah. Yeah. I'm kind of teeing myself up
a little bit, but my understanding is
they are fully on track for that for
that IPO later in the year. The the big
picture here the the reason why Elon
Musk is doing this X AI and SpaceX is
frankly Musk believes that on Earth AI
is constrained. It will break the grid.
There is not enough energy and not
enough space for the data centers. In
space there is literally enough energy
from the sun and enough space to
accommodate all of it. But the reason
that the IPO has to go ahead is that the
rationale was always to raise tens of
billions of dollars to buy the GPUs.
Whether your data center is a satellite
form factor in orbit or it's here on
Earth, that's the expensive part, the
content relating to the accelerator. And
that's what they know they need to do.
It's just they're now doing it as this
kind of wider vertically integrated
company where SpaceX through Starship
has a rocket capable of putting those
satellites into orbit. XAI has the
technical expertise to develop the
models. Um, and then I guess the next
question that many still have is where
does Tesla fit into this?
>> You can answer that yourself if you
want, Ed. No, we don't have any time.
It's good to see you, buddy. Thank you,
Ed. Thank you. Thank you very much. More
from Ed a little bit later. Look out for
Bloomberg Technology later on this
morning. $1.25 trillion. Just think
about that. Remember what we used to
call a unicorn? Billion dollar company
in the private market. Give me a break.
>> Now unicorn is a trillion dollars and
that's just one part of this company
because SpaceX is a trillion dollars and
then XAI is the next uh 25 trillion 20
250 billion.
>> Amazing. Let's stick with tech. Another
big week of earnings on deck with AMD
reporting after today's closing bout.
Jay Goldberg of Seport Global writing as
long as the big capex spenders keep up
the pace. The market will likely look
past the many obstacles ahead. Jay joins
us now for more. Jay, what's the big
obstacle for you and the team?
>> I I the the list is long and getting
longer. This is going to be a year of
constraints uh across the across the
landscape, right? The the big one is
TSMC capacity to actually manufacture
all these chips. uh they're bumping up
against their their limits. Uh we see
disruptions in the grid and getting
electricity and construction for data
centers on time. Uh the whole industry
just feels constrained.
>> Raises a question, Jay. Has that been
priced in? Because we've already seen a
bit of skepticism being priced into the
market. We haven't seen big tech reprise
some of the highs that we saw from late
last year. Even in the face of earnings
that were pretty good, say from
Microsoft, the stocks sold off. I mean,
is this appropriate or is there more to
go?
Well, I you know I I'm a little bit
downbeat, a little bit cautious about
the AI spend. I think this year uh
everybody everybody says there's unsort
of insatiable demand for AI. I I I'm not
sure we're quite seeing that yet. I
think there's a lot of open questions
about that and the Microsoft Facebook
sort of those two companies reporting
demonstrated that. We saw Facebook have
really good earnings and raise capex by
a lot. Their stock is up. Microsoft
raises capex by a smaller amount uh but
their numbers aren't quite as good.
They're not seeing those returns from
their AI investment and their stock gets
punished. I think investors are rightly
starting to question how good the AI
spend is for company's earnings and I
think it's it's still an important open
question. We're going to I think we're
going to hear a lot more of that as we
move through the year. Is that a fault
of these companies and how they're
spending the money or is it fault of any
single industrial buildout in history
where there needs to be some good money
thrown after bad to build things in
excess maybe of what they will be needed
down the line in order to have the
innovation that some of these
technologies will create.
>> I think that's a fair assessment right
there. There is going to be some some
waste, some risk, some I mean it's by
definition risk means some of it won't
pay off. Uh I what concerns me here is
the extent to which we're adding debt on
top of all this. We have a lot of
companies adding debt to you know we're
not just uh investing out of free cash
flow. Oracle, Facebook, others are
taking on debt or debt equivalents and
and that's always the point in the
bubble when things get both really
really crazy but also scary, right? I
think we're going to see a lot of that
sort of debt fueled growth flow into
numbers this year and that's why we're
bumping up against constraints. But when
the downturn turn comes and for me semis
are cyclical there will be a downturn at
that point you know the pain is
amplified by that debt.
>> You asked this question in your note
about which companies are going to
potentially miss this quarter because of
these constraints because they didn't
get the necessary components they need.
Which companies do you think potentially
could be those companies that missed
this quarter because of those
constraints?
>> I mean it's it's a theme I'm hearing for
all the companies I'm talking to. Right.
You started TSMC reported two weeks ago
they're having constraints. I mean,
they're right, they're they're the
monopoly, but they're having
constraints. Uh, I think we're going to
see that in a lot of the chip guys, a
lot of the chip designers, they're not
going to be able to get the capacity
they want from TSMC. So, that's going to
be their constraint. I think that's
going to be true for all of them. I
think that's the big limiter on Nvidia's
growth this year is going to be how much
capacity they can get out of uh out of
TSMC's packaging facilities, right? And
then you talk to the AI labs and all
they say is they want more and more
compute and they can't get the the chips
from Nvidia because Nvidia can't get the
chips from TSC TSMC in the quantities
they want and it just goes all the way
up the chain.
>> Insatiable demand. Jay, appreciate your
time. Jay Goldberg there of Seapport
Global, some of the biggest companies on
the planet on a monster spending spree
and determined to lever up and take the
risk
>> because ultimately they're worried about
being left behind if they don't take
that risk because others will eat their
lunch. It's the reason why I'm actually
really curious to see Amazon and
Alphabet, especially because of cloud
computing and what they deliver based on
the fact that people were disappointed
with how much Microsoft was able to
expand their Azure platforms. I also
think about the likes of Apple and how
much it's going to cost for them to
actually increase uh the spend on their
on their chips because of all of this
spending. I mean, it's going to have to
get more expensive at some points for
the rest of us.
>> Amazing how quickly we moved on from a
$300 billion market cap move on a single
day in Microsoft stock.
>> Yeah. Nobody seems [music] to care.
>> Like it was like nothing.
>> Well, gold took over. Gold was like,
"Here, watch my beer."
>> It's been a crazy week, hasn't it?
Coming up next, we'll catch up with
Elena Sha Saver of the Conference Board
with consumer confidence sitting at the
lowest level in more than a decade.
Plus, Yahara has your morning mover as
FISA falling down by about four to 5%.
[music]
>> [music]
>> The opening about 60 minutes away. The
scores look like this. Equity futures on
the S&P still positive for the session.
We have been for the whole session so
far. Up by a quarter of 1% on the S&P
500, up by.5 on the Nasdaq with your
morning movers. Let's cross over to
Yahara for more. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. We start with PayPal shares
plunging even harder now down 17% on a
wave of news this morning. Let's start
with the earnings cuz they appear
[music] to be the main catalyst. They
were pretty rough. Not only did they
miss on both the top and bottom lines.
The growth outlook also did not look
good. So they have chosen to make a
change at the top. Now choosing uh
Enrique Lores [music] the CEO HP to lead
the company replacing Alex Chris. HP
shares not taking that news well down
2.8% [music] in the pre-market.
Meanwhile, uh Fizer shares also falling
down more than 4 and a.5% [music] now in
the pre-market after it released early
data from one of its new obesity
treatments as the [music] company tries
to expand beyond its COVID line of
patients in the trial lost 12% of their
body weight in 28 weeks. Solid results,
but Evercore analysts saying the results
[music] leave a bit more to be desired,
citing the stiff competition from the
likes of Novo [music] and Eli Liy, which
are way out ahead. Fizer also reporting
earnings, and they did [music] beat on
both the top and bottom lines. And we
end on AES. Those shares continuing to
gain momentum up nearly 8% now in the
pre-market on our scoop that Black
Rockck Global Infrastructure Partners is
teaming up with EQT [music] on a
potential takeover. This is a power
company uh based in Arlington, Virginia,
and they supply energy to the likes of
Microsoft. That's [music] it. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Some of the movers in
the pre-market from Yhara Allen there. A
mover, some movement from the Walt
Disney Company. Let's get to it. A staff
move at Ladllo, widely expected. It's
official.
>> Yep. Josh Dearo, the parks chief, will
be the next CEO of the Walt Disney
Company. It's effective uh March 18th,
2026. That is when he will succeed Bob
Iger. Bloomberg had reported that Dearo
was the frontr runner uh back on the 1st
of February. There's also a bit of
shuffling with other executives here,
John, that's worth discussing. Dana
Walden is going to become president and
chief creative officer of the Walt
Disney Company. She was the co-lead of
the entertainment business and so it
seems like she is given a broader
portfolio while Demarro jumps from
leading this parks business which was
undergoing a transformation right they
were basically saying to Dearo in the
interim change the parks business invest
$60 billion look at our investments
elsewhere uh but this you know was
expected in so far as that Disney uh
Bloomberg sorry had reported on it to be
the case and in about an hour's time I'm
going to speak to the the chairman of
Disney James Gorman and I think we'll
learn a little bit more about why Josh
Dearo was the right candidate versus
those internally and externally.
>> Well, he's the man I want to talk about,
Ed, and I'm looking forward to this
conversation and I don't want to be too
personal about this, but just to state a
fact, we're here because Bob Iger
screwed up the succession planning and
had to come back after selecting Bob
Shape. How important was it to get James
Gorman involved in this process? A man
who handled that process brilliantly at
Morgan Stanley. Yeah. So, James Gorman
took over the search in 2024, and it had
been going on a little bit prior to
that. It's a three-year process. I
remember being sat opposite Bob Chapeek,
the the short time uh Disney CEO back in
May 2019 when they opened Star Wars
Galaxy's Edge. And the idea was when he
was named CEO of Disney in February of
2020, he would take his experience at
the parks and expanding IP, right? the
Star Wars IP was absolutely critical,
but by the end of of of 2020, he he was
no longer CEO, right? And it was well
documented some of the the tensity and
relationship between him and Bob Iger. I
I'm just going to say it for what it is
and you know, I guess we'll pose the
question Josh Dearo jumping from parks
to lead the whole company is quite
similar to the scenario of of of Mr.
Chapek jumping from from that unit to to
lead the company. And so, you know, I'm
very interested to hear why the internal
candidates were best and and what the
options were externally as well.
>> And Ed, I do want to go back in time
too, why this company believed that the
only man who could run this company was
Barb. How did this company get to that
place?
>> Uh, experienced operator. I mean, what's
so interesting in the release that uh
Disney have just put out that, you know,
they emphasize Josh Dearo is a 28-year
veteran of this company and has hold,
you know, a multitude of roles. But with
with Mr. Iger's return, uh, you know, it
was defaulting back to somebody that
could handle the many tentacle beast,
right? these different divisions, parks,
cruises, entertainment, the restructure
where they had the new business lines.
It's difficult to run basically several
different companies doing different
things, particularly at a time 2020 in
the COVID era where there was an
intensity between the different
streaming platform providers. That was
really where they wanted to focus
initially. Again, that's a great
question to ask, right? you know, is
that still the main stay focus here or
is the parks business, me, the
entertainment business, uh, you know, on
parallel terms in terms of priority. Bob
Iger understood how to run them all.
>> Ed, looking forward to the conversation
in the next hour. Thank you, sir.
Bloomberg's Ed Landlau on the changes at
the top of the Walt Disney Company
leading those changes. James Gorman, the
Walt Disney Company chairman is going to
be joining the program in the next hour.
and somebody who as you were talking
about has had deep experience in terms
of handing over the reigns of a very big
corporation and that would be Morgan
Stanley. Look, we just are now seeing
the ninth CEO for Disney in its 102year
history at a time of incredible
transformation. The question of how
they're going to deal with uh with
intellectual property, how they're going
to deal with technology, how they're
going to deal with the international
relations at a time where international
visitors to uh Disney parks have come
down. These are all some of the
challenges that people are going to be
looking for solutions from do Josh
tomorrow.
>> The problem with Bob Iger of course was
he was sticking around as chairman and
it felt like he didn't really want to
give up the reigns. So you basically had
two almost co-CEOs running the company
even though one was supposed to give up
the reigns and move to the side. James
Gorman is taking a different approach.
He's really coming from the outside.
It's not Bob Iger going out and picking
his successor. It's James Gorman. And
maybe that gives him a kind of fresh
slate coming into this. Look, maybe I'm
too hyperritical about this situation,
but succession planning is a core part
of any CEO's job. You're a custodian of
the company. You are not the founder,
and it's your job to find someone who
can run the company. If the company's
too complex for anyone else to run it,
you've also failed. And I think these
are conversations you have to have as a
Disney shareholder. For anyone who's
watched this play out over the last 10
years or so, you can't be too happy with
some of the returns you've seen.
>> This is the reason why James Gnner was
put in there, right? I mean, how much
has this literally been the reason for
his being there and what he's been
focused on up until this point?
>> Let's turn to the labor market and get
away from this. We're looking forward to
the conversation anyway. 9:30 Eastern
time. Let's turn to the labor market.
The impact of the shutdown beginning to
build with Friday's payrolls already
delayed. Mike McKe has more for us. Good
morning, Mike.
>> Good morning, John. We also lost jolts
today. Fortunately, you've got Elon Musk
and AI and the Disney stories to fill in
for the lack of economic data, which
will only get worse on Friday because we
don't get the jobs report either. Now,
the question is, does this shutdown run
longer and we lose some important data
next week, import prices, uh, the ECI on
Tuesday and then Wednesday, the CPI,
those are in jeopardy because they are
done by the Bureau of Labor Statistics
and it's labor that is not getting
funded. We do have some good news for
next week because private sector data
and commerce department data do come out
along with Census Bureau data. We get
ADP and ISM services tomorrow. Uh
Michigan sentiment on Friday and then we
do get retail sales and existing homes
next week. The question is where do they
fit in jolts and where do they fit in
jobs? They could just move jobs to next
Friday if this shutdown ends. We've got
nothing of uh significance on Friday of
next week. Mike McKe, thank you.
Hopefully we can sort this out.
Hopefully we can get some data sometime
soon. We've got some data from Yolanda
Sheta of the Conference Board. She
writes this about consumer confidence.
Confidence collapsed in January, hitting
its lowest level since May 2014.
Concerns worsened across all age groups,
income levels, and political
affiliations. This wasn't a one-mon
fluke. Yolena joins us now for more.
Yolena, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> This one is really hard to internalize.
Just the idea that consumer confidence
is worse now than it was in the
pandemic. Can you make sense of some of
this for us?
>> And what makes it even worse is that
it's a trend. It's just not one month's
thing, right? We have seen it uh
declining for quite some time now. And
uh that what makes it very legitimate
actually. So confidence right now is at
the worst level uh since uh two 10 years
ago. But it was worth before. uh if you
go back to the great recession coming
out of the great recession that's how
consumers feel felt at that time. So
think about it this way now consumers
are feeling actually uh that as bad as
they were coming out of the great
recession. So that tells you something.
>> So what does it tell you? because a lot
of people come on the show and they say
ignore it because frankly it has not
been instructive to how the economy has
done and frankly how you've seen uh
companies and even workers demonstrate
their spending capacities.
>> Well, every bird likes its own nest and
kind of like I do believe in the data uh
just again because it's a trend. It's
not just a one month thing. So I think
there's something to it. Consumers are
worried about jobs. Consumers are
worried about affordability and
consumers are worried about their income
levels. So this is very important
because that actually coincides with
what the actual data are telling us. if
everybody was talking about how great
GDP numbers were in Q3, but I looked at
income data in the same exact BA report
and that data is telling me that uh
disposable personal income in real
terms, which is income essentially
adjusted for inflation and taxes that
has been flat since uh Q3 of this year.
So that is weakening and that is the
fuel for consumers to spend going
forward. Is this an economic issue or is
this a political issue
>> uh in terms of consumer confidence?
>> Yeah. And I ask this because ultimately
if you look at the averages, they're
pretty good,
>> but if you look at the politics, it's
the affordability crisis that you're
talking about and certainly a lot of
people are feeling every single day. So,
does this get represented in the overall
economic data or in terms of what
policies are going to come out of
Washington DC to respond to some of
these issues?
>> I think it's both. It's it's really
about how unaffordable things are and
it's all about the economy, stupid,
right? At the end of the day, it's about
prices. It's about jobs. Consumers are
not feeling confident about finding a
job. So, it is about the economy. I do
think that political uh things and uh
other disruptions are playing a role as
well. Consumers do hear the news and
often times you know confidence and
sentiment indicators reflect what is
happening in the news and there's like
even some special indexes like news
heard uh in the Michigan survey right so
that that is something uh to take into
account a lot of guests will come on and
they're talking about the excitement of
the tax rebate where do you see that
money going
>> I think you know I'm very cautious about
that because I think that People spend a
lot of money during the holiday season
and uh they may have to return this
money.
>> It's spent already.
>> It's already spent. You do see a
significant pickup in credit card
balances over the last several months.
And uh that is the data coming from the
New York Fed. And I think that uh given
you know the you know constraints in
terms of income growth in terms of the
labor market people will be cautious and
we'll try to get to pay uh back uh some
debt.
>> We've said it a few times on this show.
Energy bills in the Northeast are going
to be insane over the next month.
>> Yeah. And it's not just because of the
weather. It's also because of some of
the other demands on it. I mean, yes,
it's been really cold. Really cold. And
that's why I like to turn down the
thermostat at the same time, you know,
to save money on bills. This is going to
be an increase in Jimmy Carter. But
yeah, the electricity prices are going
up.
>> You know what Bremo does? When Bremo
comes to work, turns the thermostat down
and the boys sit at home and put on
extra layers. Know about this.
>> Let's be honest. And they're watching
right now. So now that
>> it's fine. No, they're at school. I
mean, honestly, like [laughter] it's
better for your health to sleep in a
cold.
>> They're watching. Turn the thermostat
up, boys. Ya. [laughter] Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. Good to see you.
Yolenna Schulz over there of the
conference board. Let's give an update
on stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief is Vonnie Quinn. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Disney has named
Josh Dearo as the entertainment giant's
next CEO. Tomorrow will succeed longtime
chief executive Bob Iger beginning March
18th, ending a three-year search
process. [music] Tomorrow is 28-year-old
veteran at Disney and currently heads
the company's parks division, which is
by far its largest source of profit.
PepsiCo is cutting prices by as much as
15% for its key brands, including Lays
and Doritos. The snack and beverage
company is making the cuts [music] this
week ahead of Sunday's Super Bowl. Pepsi
said it's keeping its package sizes the
same and hopes more affordable products
will help lift sales.
President Donald Trump is calling on
Republicans to nationalize voting in the
United States ahead of this year's
midterm elections. In a podcast
interview with former FBI director Dan
Benjino, the president saying
non-citizen voting is improperly
influencing election outcomes. That is
your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Appreciate the
update. Up next, Chris Harvey of CIBC
anticipating a washled Fed to favor Main
Street over Wall Street. That's up next.
This is Bloomberg. [music]
>> [music]
[music]
>> It is an environment where we are in a a
state [music] of unprecedented flux and
change, geopolitical makeovers. Um and
but but the abiding concept uh when you
look as an equity investor is that
earnings are really going strong.
>> That was Julian Emanuel of EverCore
looking ahead to results from Alphabet
tomorrow. [music]
Amazon the following day. Equities at
the moment shaping up as follows going
down into the open and bow futures
positive by 0.2% [music] on the S&P on
the NASDAQ up by close to 0.5. Turning
to the economy investors awaiting a new
regime of the Federal Reserve under
Kevin Walsh. [music] Chris Harvey of
CIBC writing expect Walsh to lean QE
hawkish Fed funds dovish and main street
over Wall Street. Chris joins us now for
more. Chris, good morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Let's breathe some life into that
particular quote. What does that mean
for equities?
>> So, what that means is for equities is I
think it's okay, right? Um I I think
what let's just go piece by piece on QE
Wars is out there saying he's not a he's
not a big fan. But really, what is he
going to do? Is he going to shrink the
balance sheet? No. But what he's going
to do is probably he's going to change
the duration around. He's been out there
saying duration should probably come
down, should match issuance, so on and
so forth. In addition to that, he's been
saying or or the belief is that NBS is
doesn't belong there. Maybe they do
something with NBS. Um but nothing
radical, right? If we go over to Fed
funds, right? If you're going to favor
Wall Street over Main Street, who funds
at the front end of the curve? You have
auto loans, you have helocks, you have
small businesses. And so he will be much
more aggressive or probably be more
aggressive at the front end of the
curve, right? A and we're going into
midterm elections, right? Um he just got
nominated. We believe he will be
appointed. And the belief is we need to
do something for the the average person.
And so that's not growing the balance
sheet. That's not providing liquidity.
That's really providing uh funding or
relief at the front end of the curve.
>> Is that the kind of market that I want
to be in cyclicals in small caps?
>> Yeah, you you do. But remember, this is
probably not coming until June, maybe
later. And so between now and then,
that's a financial eternity. And one of
the things that we've seen is small
caps, we saw the January effect. I don't
know if we really saw the rotation
because once earnings began, that
January effect stopped. Small caps
stopped outperforming. Risk stopped
outperforming. And so I think what the
market's saying is, yeah, there's some
geopolitical risk, but maybe the
fundamentals aren't strong enough. And
the belief is if the Fed's not going to
cut in the first half of the year or not
until the end of the first half of the
year, um we really have to think
otherwise.
>> So what do you do in the meantime during
this financial eternity where suddenly
there's a question about whether Main
Street gets uh some of the stimulus and
frankly Wall Street is struggling with
questions around artificial
intelligence,
>> right? So not to be too wonky, but one
of the things we say we want you to go
up in quality. So higher quality
companies, good balance sheets, um good
stewards of capital. In addition to
that, we don't think it's the time to go
bottom fishing, right? Uh the chart
can't look bad. Chart has to look good.
Um because a lot of these companies with
positive price momentum, right, they do
have better fundamentals. So, we want to
marry higher quality companies with
companies that the market's already
rewarding, be it uh no matter what
sector you're looking at.
>> Is big tech still high quality at these
valuations?
>> I think so. And I think one of the
really interesting things is yesterday
Oracle had a bond issuance. They think
they had a convert issuance that went
quite well, right? There's been a lot of
um concern about hypers scale or
hyperscaler funding and I think that put
a lot of concerns and a lot of fears to
rest.
>> Are you hopeful for the numbers we get
from Alphabet and Amazon that this just
continues.
>> I I think the numbers in earnings season
have been pretty good. The one thing I'm
not seeing and and you still have a lot
of idiosyncratic risk, right? But the
one thing I'm not seeing is I'm not
seeing this acceleration, right? And if
you need an acceleration in the economy,
you need an acceleration in earnings to
really go down to that secondary and
tertiary bucket.
>> One thing we talked about is how much
the tech trade has just changed.
>> Yeah.
>> Hardware versus software within Mac 7 as
well. I'm not sure we can even talk
about Mac 7 as a group of stocks. It
just looks so different from Meta to
Microsoft. And Apple has no place in
that group.
>> I don't know if it has has no place, but
you're right. The phrase that I hate and
the phrase a lot of people use coming
into this year is it's a stock pickers
market. uh every year it's always a
stock picker market. I I don't I don't
understand that phrase, but I I I think
it is applicable here. You do have
because idiosyncratic risk is getting
bigger. You're later in the cycle. Um
because the economy is not accelerating,
because earnings are not accelerating,
you really need a good idiosyncratic or
stock specific.
>> Can I just pick up on that phrase later
in the cycle? Yeah.
>> Late cycle or later in the cycle?
>> I think it's later in the cycle. Um so
credit spreads um and you probably seen
this um hit um hit a low we haven't seen
since ASU watch jeans were in favor
right since 1997. Um the amount of
issuance that we're seeing is is really
rather significant. Um these are the
things you see later in the cycle right
do I think the cycle will continue I do
think the cycle will continue because I
do think there's a lot of accommodation
in the system and I don't think the uh
monetary policy accommodation is done.
>> So what kind of returns are you
expecting this year? We've seen some
projections for 7,800 8,000. This idea
that you can have AI continue to fuel
this even amid some of the wobbles that
we've seen recently. Do you think that
that's fair or do you think that it's
going to be more of a churn to year end?
Uh
>> I think so. Our expectations for high
single digits. It's 74 7450, right? Um
last year we were much more aggressive.
And what we think is by the end of the
year you're going to start looking to 27
and now you're going to start looking at
a situation where it's beginning to
decelerate. That said, with so much
accommodation on the table and with the
Trump administration pushing things in
front of midterms, we could have a
little bit of a meltup or a pop um
summertime, um fall, I think.
>> So, this is sort of the the bipolar
aspect of a lot of the conversations we
have. Some people say because of the
midterm elections, you're going to get a
meltup. Other people say you could get a
meltdown in certain names. I'm thinking
in particular of artificial intelligence
related energy types of projects
especially with the affordability crisis
and how much you could crack down.
There's been questions around the banks
trade and what we've seen there. How do
you pair these two ideas?
>> So what we what we're seeing is I think
in the first half right you're going to
have bounce of risk aversion. We've
already seen a couple bounce of risk
aversion not not excessive that's going
to continue. I think people are really
really under coming into the year
underappreciate the macro and and some
of the macro concerns. Underlying
fundamentals are still good. We would
buy any sort of 5% 5% plus pullback. I
think we do get some of that right
because expectations are so high but at
the end of the day we think equities do
go higher later in the year and there is
a possibility for a sharp pop higher
sometime maybe in the summertime maybe
in the fall.
>> What are you thinking of in terms of the
summertime? A fiscal impulse from this
administration. I just don't see what
they can actually get through.
>> So, it's a couple things. One, the
deregulation, right? We've seen the
change on multiples, but the E is going
to start to fill in. And I think the
economy, even though it's not
accelerating, it's still pretty good.
M&A activity, when you have credit
spreads and cost of funding this cheap,
you're going to have a lot more M&A. Um,
we haven't even talked about IPOs and
and things of that nature. We see what's
happening in the the metal space. The
the momentum factor in the market is
quite strong. And if it comes back,
swings back to equities, it can really
change prices very quickly.
>> We could see some massive IPOs in the
next 12 months. The biggest IPOs we've
ever seen. SpaceX could be one. That
combination $1.25 trillion. Just think
about the fact that we just managed to
build we Elon Musk and his team built
this. But ultimately financial markets
contributed to it. We just managed to
build a $1.25 trillion company in
private markets. that 10, 15, 20 years
ago. Unthinkable. Absolutely
unthinkable.
>> What's even more unthinkable is it's not
the only one. What kind of valuation is
OpenAI going to have when they
potentially IPO? And then will it be the
justification for some of these private
market valuations or will it be maybe a
bit of a rebuttal when they actually
have to face the music and uh do an
initial public offering? A lot of people
wondering what the pricing will be like.
>> Chris, it's good to see you.
>> It's good to see you.
>> Thanks for being here. Thank you, sir.
Lots to think about. Chris Harvey of
CIBC. Coming up tomorrow, here's the
lineup for you. Chris Veron of
Strategus, Libby Cantrol of Pimco, Gene
Soka of the Port of Los Angeles,
Michelle Weaver of Morgan [music]
Stanley, and a whole lot more. Your
equity market on the S&P 500 just about
positive this morning, up by two ten of
1%. Succession planning in full force of
the Walt Disney Company. Look out, James
Gorman, the chairman of the Walt Disney
Company, speaking to Ed Lello about 35
minutes from now from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Thank you for
choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg surveillance.